
Employment assistance for full-time students 001-02300000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process when students may contact Services
Australia to assist them to find work while they study. Although
full-time students are not eligible to register with Employment Services
Providers, there are Self Service Terminals that they have access to.

Eligibility to register with Employment Services Providers

To be eligible to register with an Employment Services Provider and
access all services, customers must be:

-   not in full time education or training, and
-   in receipt of an eligible Commonwealth income support payment

Full-time enrolment

People who are currently involved in a course of full-time study, but
are on a break between two consecutive years of their course (e.g.
second year university student on holidays from November to January
before commencing third year) are still considered full-time students.
They are not eligible to register as a job seeker, but can still access
the Self Service Terminals. A customer who has not yet completed the
normal requirements of their full-time course (including regularly
scheduled exams and assignments) remains a full-time student.

People who have applied for tertiary studies

However, people who have completed their secondary school studies and
have applied to go on to tertiary studies, whilst full-time students for
income support purposes, are not considered to be full-time students for
the purposes of Employment Services Provider eligibility until their
application has been approved by the tertiary institution. These people
are eligible to register as volunteer job seekers, provided all other
eligibility conditions are met.

The Resources page contains examples of students who may register as a
job seeker.

Contents

Employment assistance for students moving from secondary to tertiary
studies

Related Links

Employment assistance for trainees

Self service terminals

Registering a customer as a job seeker

Eligibility for Employment Services as a volunteer

Eligibility to access employment assistance services through Workforce
Australia

Participation with Workforce Australia

Eligibility and registration for employment assistance as a Vulnerable
Youth (VY) or Vulnerable Youth (Student) (VY(S))

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
