
Requirement for a Job Seeker Snapshot initiated ESAt as a result of an Employment Services Provider update 001-02050070

-   Background
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the requirement for an Employment Services
Assessment (ESAt) as a result of an Employment Services Provider
updating a Job Seeker Snapshot for a customer.

Change in circumstances

A Workforce Australia organisation or Community Development Program
(CDP) provider can apply the Job Seeker Snapshot or update details in a
job seeker's record to reflect changes in the job seeker's circumstances
in some circumstances.

For more detail, refer to Conducting a Job Seeker Snapshot interview.

CDP providers can run the Job Seeker Snapshot to make an ESAt referral
if they think it is appropriate for the job seeker.

Workforce Australia Employment Services Providers applying the Job Seeker Snapshot

Workforce Australia can register customers as job seekers and apply the
Job Seeker Snapshot, as long as the customer has a Centrelink record and
is receiving:

-   Disability Support Pension (DSP)
-   Parenting Payment (PP) but has no mutual obligation requirements

Employment Services Providers and CDP providers can update the Job
Seeker Snapshot for job seekers with mutual obligation requirements who
are receiving JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Youth Allowance (YA), Special
Benefit (SpB) or Parenting Payment (PP) where the job seeker has advised
a change in circumstances.

When a Job Seeker Snapshot initiated ESAt is flagged as a result of a
provider applying or updating a Job Seeker Snapshot, the provider will
decide if an ESAt is required.

When a provider comments on a job seeker's changed circumstances, this
can be taken into account by the Service Officer when determining if the
job seeker requires further assessment, including running the Job Seeker
Snapshot and referring for an ESAt.

The Provider Recorded Information workflow can be used to assist Service
Officers making participation decisions.

Job seekers requiring an ESAt

-   When determining the need for an ESAt, Service Officers will take
    into account a range of factors including whether the job seeker's
    circumstances have been previously assessed and whether an ESAt is
    likely to result in a change of employment service eligibility or
    work capacity
-   Employment Services Providers may also advise volunteers who they
    consider may be eligible for Disability Employment Services (DES) or
    another programme of support, to go to Services Australia to report
    the details of their circumstances and to provide any medical
    evidence
-   Employment Services Providers may make a referral for an ESAt if, at
    any time, the job seekers discloses new information that indicates a
    change in their circumstances that cannot be addressed by their
    current service or is likely to change their current work capacity

Decision is made that an ESAt is required

If the decision is made that an ESAt is required, and:

-   there is a current and valid ESAt/(Job Capacity Assessment (JCA),
    the outcomes of that assessment can be reapplied if there are no
    significant changes in the customer's circumstances. Doing this will
    still identify appropriate referral outcomes
-   there is not a current and valid ESAt/JCA, the Workforce Australia
    organisation or CDP provider is responsible for referring the
    customer for an ESAt

Decision is made that an ESAt is not required

When a provider directly registers a job seeker and before the job
seeker starts to receive Workforce Australia assistance, the provider
can remove an ESAt flag if they think the job seeker does not require an
ESAt. The job seeker can immediately be registered as a volunteer job
seeker. Refer to Eligibility for Employment Services as a volunteer.

Referral for an ESAt by another provider

Disability Employment Services (DES) providers can directly register job
seekers who do not have mutual obligation requirements, such as
Disability Support Pension (DSP) customers aged 35 years or more, and
can refer these job seekers directly for an ESAt.

Related links

Assessment Services

Job Seeker Snapshot initiated Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)
flags

Participation with Workforce Australia

Release of information to Employment Services Providers

Disclosing information to third parties

Community Development Program (CDP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
