
[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines policy and procedures that apply where a job
seeker refuses, or fails to accept, a suitable offer of employment.
Note: ParentsNext participants are not subject to this type of
non-compliance event.

Policy context

Fully capable Job seekers who are of working age are able to access a
participation payment while they are looking for work. In order to
receive the payment, a job seeker or participant must meet their mutual
obligation requirements.

Job seekers except ParentsNext participants, are required to actively
seek work and accept any offer of suitable paid employment in a variety
of fields. Job seekers who accept a suitable offer of employment are
expected to commence this employment.

Where a job seeker is not meeting mutual obligation requirements and/or
is not genuine in their efforts to find work, they may be subject to
financial penalties or have to wait for a period of time before payment
is payable.

Suitable work

A failure cannot be applied if the employment is deemed unsuitable for
the job seeker or they have a reasonable excuse for refusing, or failing
to accept the job offer.

Consequences of refusing, failing to accept or commence suitable work

Where a job seeker refuses, fails to accept or does not commence
suitable work without a reasonable excuse, Services Australia is
required to apply the relevant legislation in the investigation of any
non-compliance.

The consequence for this compliance event depends on which job seeker
compliance system is appropriate.

Under the Targeted Compliance Framework a work refusal failure has been
committed:

if a reasonable excuse is not established for the work refusal failure

-   the job seeker's payment will be cancelled and a post cancellation
    non-payment period affects the start date for a participation
    payment if they reclaim within 4 weeks

Under the Job Seeker Compliance Framework:

a serious failure has occurred, and

-   the participant is required to serve an 8 week serious failure
    period during which a participation payment is not payable

Note: ParentsNext participants are not subject to compliance action
where they refuse, or fail to accept, a suitable offer of employment.

Identifying compliance events

Where a provider identifies a job seeker refused, failed to accept or
did not commence work as planned, the provider is required to talk with
the job seeker, assess whether the work was suitable and decide if they
have a valid reason for refusing the job offer.

The provider electronically notifies Services Australia where they are
satisfied that a non-compliance event occurred without valid reason.

When compliance action is generated Services Australia are responsible
for determining if a failure has been committed.

Investigating refusal, failure to accept or commence suitable work

Participation Solutions Team (PST)-skilled Service Officers are
responsible for undertaking the compliance investigation and determining
if a failure has been committed.

The investigation will focus on the matters that are relevant to making
an evidence-based decision that is in line with the legislative
framework and policy intent.

If the job seeker is managed under:

-   Targeted Compliance Framework, see Work refusal failures
-   Job Seeker Compliance Framework, see Assessing a serious failure for
    refusing to accept or failing to start a suitable job

Under Mutual obligation requirements for Special Benefit (SpB),
compliance action may be applied where a SpB (NVH) job seeker refuses,
or fails to accept or commence suitable work.

Related links

Roles and responsibilities for managing compliance with compulsory
requirements

Suitable/unsuitable work

Targeted Compliance Framework

Work refusal failures

Targeted Compliance Framework financial penalties and payment
cancellations

Job Seeker Compliance Framework

Compliance action initiated by Community Development Program (CDP)
providers

Assessing a serious failure for refusing to accept or failing to start a
suitable job

Assessing reasonable excuse for non-compliance with mutual obligation
requirements

Job Seeker Compliance Framework waiver and hardship provisions

Waiving a serious failure period

Serious failure hardship provisions

Serious failure penalties

Gathering and assessing evidence for a job seeker compliance
investigation

Mutual obligation requirements for Special Benefit (SpB)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
