
Participation in Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP) 001-02170030

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about customers participating in the
Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP). Customers will be required to
attend the nominated AMEP provider for assessment and commencement of
tuition.

Mutual obligation requirements

Job seekers participating in AMEP are required to take personal
responsibility for:

-   recording and/or reporting their attendance at requirements
-   looking for work and reporting their Job Search efforts on time each
    month
-   agreeing to undertake activities to build their capacity
-   discussing/disclosing personal circumstances that may impact their
    ability to meet requirements, and
-   recording Personal Events in their Calendar

Full-time participation

Full-time participation in AMEP is 20 hours (15 hours face-to-face and 5
hours non-contact) per week.

Participants can arrange to meet their participation in AMEP during
their Work for the Dole Phase. The job seeker does not have to complete
any additional hours in another activity but is still required to meet
their mutual obligation requirements listed above.

Part-time participation

Any number of hours less than 20 hours per week (less than 15 hours
face-to-face and 5 hours non-contact) participation in AMEP is
considered as part-time. There is no minimum number of hours required to
be studied.

Job Plan

AMEP will be included on the Activity and Exemption Summary (AEX) screen
on the job seeker's record as a voluntary or compulsory activity, once
they have commenced in AMEP and the placement has been recorded. Job
seekers should be encouraged to share their Job Plan with their AMEP
service provider to inform them of their mutual obligation requirements.
Job seekers are only required to accept employment opportunities that
fit around their AMEP class times.

Newly arrived refugees

Most newly arrived refugees remain Centrelink managed until 6 or 12
months after their arrival in Australia. There are a number of factors
that determine this eligibility and how long they will remain Centrelink
managed. See Refugee and humanitarian entrant service offer for more
information.

If they meet the eligibility requirements to remain Centrelink managed,
during the Centrelink managed period, they can fully meet their mutual
obligation requirements by participating in AMEP. In this case, Service
Officers will need to negotiate their Job Plan. See Negotiating Job
Plans for newly arrived refugees following the 'Refugee in First 13
Weeks' (REF) exemption.

RapidConnect

Youth Allowance job seekers under 22 years of age identified as
potentially eligible for a referral to AMEP as part of the Participation
Interview, will be exempt from RapidConnect.

Student payments

If a customer requests to claim a student payment for participation in
AMEP, Services Australia may consider this if it benefits the customer
and where all other eligibility criteria for a student payment are met.

However, if a person is disadvantaged by transferring to a student
payment (for example, if it would result in the customer receiving a
lower rate of payment than they would receive on JobSeeker Payment
(JSP)), this is not appropriate and the customer should be advised to
remain on their existing income support payment.

A customer who has been on income support for 12 months or more when
they commence AMEP may be eligible for the Education Entry Payment
(EdEP).

Exits from AMEP

AMEP participation will be automatically updated when the customer is no
longer participating in the program and a finalisation will be displayed
in the customer's record. The customer's level of achievement in written
or spoken English is also displayed on their record.

Transferring from AMEP to Skills for Education and Employment (SEE)

SEE and AMEP are similar but separate programs that cannot be undertaken
concurrently. AMEP participants will generally transfer to SEE after
completing their AMEP participation. A customer can be referred to SEE
while participating in AMEP, but if they are accepted into SEE, they
will be exited from AMEP automatically.

Recommencements in AMEP

Under the following circumstances, a customer can recommence in AMEP if
they have ongoing entitlement to AMEP:

-   Previously withdrawn from AMEP and wants to go back on, or
-   The SEE placement is finalised (with any finalisation reason)

The Referrals Summary screen is automatically updated to 'placed' unless
the customer is currently participating in a non-concurrent program. See
Manual action is required to confirm the customer's current activity.

The Resources page contains additional information regarding AMEP and a
link to the Department of Home Affairs website.

Related links

Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP)

Referral to Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP)

Skills for Education and Employment (SEE)

Education Entry Payment (EdEP)

Approved activities for principal carers

Approved activities for customers assessed as having a partial capacity
to work (PCW)

Approved activities for customers assessed as having a temporary reduced
work capacity (TRWC)

Approved activities for mature age customers

Negotiating Job Plans

English programs for migrants

Negotiating Job Plans for newly arrived refugees following the Refugee
in First 13 Weeks (REF) exemption

Annual Activity Requirements for Workforce Australia

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
