
Lodgement and processing arrangements for Reporting Statements when self service reporting is unavailable 001-09040100

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process when a customer contacts to report
their employment income, participation details or changes to their
circumstances because either or both of the self service channels
(online, Express Plus application or phone) are unavailable.

Arrangement during self service outage

If a customer contacts about lodgement arrangements when the self
service channels are unavailable, it is necessary to check if the outage
is due to extreme circumstances, such as floods or other natural
disasters. If this is the case, lodgement and processing arrangements
for Reporting Statements in special circumstances are followed.

When only one self service channel is unavailable and the customer is
registered for both channels, they are advised to report via the
available channel in the first instance.

If the outage has meant that both self service channels are unavailable
and it is expected they will be available again in the short term, the
customer is to be advised to try again in half an hour.

If it is a longer term issue, Reporting Statements for self service
reporting customers can be processed by the Service Officer by asking
the appropriate questions. Details of the conversation with the customer
must be documented on the customer's record.

Where the Service Officer has processed the report for a customer who
regularly reports via self service, a Reporting Statement (SU19) form is
not required to be completed by the customer.

The Resources page contains links to Operational Messaging, Network News
Update (NNU) and Office Locator.

Related links

Lodgement and processing arrangements for Activity Tested/participation
requirements customers in special circumstances

Telephone lodgement of Reporting Statement when customer has a
compliance investigation pending

Reporting option online

Reporting using Phone Self Service option

Reporting overview

Reporting screens

Earnings and reporting tool

Access to Centrelink self service - set up, checking, locking and
resetting

Using Centrelink self service

Compliance investigations and hardship provisions for job seekers
affected by a natural disaster or declared emergency

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
