
This document outlines how Employment Services Providers are able to
refer job seekers to a range of programs funded by commonwealth, state
and territory governments. Providers may refer to these as
'complementary employment and training programs'.

Referrals made by providers

Providers may make referrals directly to programs, with the exception of
Reconnect, which are made through Services Australia. When a provider
refers a job seeker to the following programs, the Agency's system will
automatically be updated with relevant information:

-   Adult Migrant English Program
-   Work for the Dole
-   Skills for Education and Employment (SEE)

Providers will assess the job seeker's eligibility for the SEE program
and record the referral to monitor participation in the program.
Providers do not record program placements.

Mutual obligation requirements

Job seekers will stay connected with their Employment Services Provider
while undertaking the complementary program. The provider remains
responsible for determining what the job seeker will be required to do
to satisfy mutual obligation requirements and recording these
requirements in the job seekers Job Plan. Job seekers may still be
required to complete job search requirements in addition to
participating in the complementary program.

Referrals made by Services Australia

Services Australia can make referrals to complementary programs at any
contact with the job seeker.

Referral made as part of the Online Participation or First Contact
Service Offer (FCSO) workflows, may be made concurrently with a referral
to an Employment Services Provider or an Employment Services Assessment
(ESAt) if one has been triggered.

Recommendations for referral to complementary programs by Assessment Services

Where the outcome of an Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)/Job
Capacity Assessment (JCA) is that the job seeker would benefit from a
referral to a complementary program, the Assessor will note the details
of the complementary program in the ESAt/JCA report to inform the
provider or Services Australia of possible servicing strategies. The
Assessor will not action referrals to complementary programs.

Related links

Reconnect

Skills for Education and Employment (SEE)

Work for the Dole (WFD) under Workforce Australia

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
