
Self-employment 001-02010060

-   Background
-   Process
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how staff can assist customers with information
about self-employment, and how a job seeker can meet their mutual
obligation requirements.

Starting a business

Customers and job seekers can access information about starting a
business from the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations
(DEWR) website or state and territory agencies. Training information
about small business courses can be accessed from organisations such as
TAFE.

Self-Employment Assistance

Self-Employment Assistance assists eligible job seekers to establish and
run new commercially viable businesses. Job seekers who are registered
with Workforce Australia or a Disability Employment Services (DES)
providers and who have a suitable business idea, may be referred by
their provider or DES to participate in Self-Employment Assistance for
specialist small business services and training. See Self-Employment
Assistance for further information.

Self-employment and mutual obligation requirements

JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Youth Allowance (YA) (job seekers), Parenting
Payment (PP) customers with mutual obligation requirements and certain
Special Benefit (SpB) customers are required to be actively looking for
work, or taking reasonable steps to undertake suitable training or other
requirements which assist them to return to employment.

Job seekers may be able to have self-employment approved as an activity
to meet their mutual obligation requirements.

A job seeker's business income and hours of work will be assessed as
part of meeting reporting and participation obligations.

The Resources page contains further information for customers to
investigate different aspects of self-employment.

Related links

Self-employment as an approved activity

Self-Employment Assistance

Approved mutual obligation requirements for Centrelink managed Job Plans

Assessing sole trader income

Community Development Program (CDP)

Altered processes and mutual obligation requirements for job seekers due
to coronavirus (COVID-19) response

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
