-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines approved requirements which satisfy mutual
obligation requirements for customers who have been assessed as having a
Temporary Reduced Work Capacity (TRWC) by an Employment Services
Assessment (ESAt).

TRWC bandwidths

The ESAt assesses temporary reduced work capacity according to the
following bandwidths:

-   0-7 hours per week
-   8-14 hours per week
-   15-22 hours per week
-   23-29 hours per week

Work Capacity (WC) screen

Services Australia uses information about the customer's temporary
reduced work capacity from the Work Capacity section of the ESAt report
to place the job seeker into the appropriate TRWC participation
category. Once the ESAt report is accepted, this information is
displayed on the Work Capacity (WC) screen.

Note: job seekers who had their Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) finalised
prior to 6 March 2009 and were assessed as having a TRWC of 0-14 hours
per week, will not have this information displayed on the WC screen due
to system limitations. See Step 5 in the Triggering and recording a QTI
requirement for a job seeker with PCW or TRWC table.

Connection to Employment Services Provider

Customers with an assessed TRWC of 0-7 hours per week are not eligible
to participate in Disability Employment Services (DES). However, these
customers may still choose to volunteer to participate with an
Employment Services Provider.

Job Plan requirements

Services Australia must negotiate a Job Plan for job seekers assessed as
having a TRWC of between 0-14 hours per week by an ESAt. These job
seekers may volunteer to be connected with a provider who may add
voluntary activities to the Job Plan. Regardless of whether the job
seeker is connected to a provider, they will be managed by Services
Australia and Service Australia will be required to negotiate the
initial Job Plan.

Participation in drug or alcohol treatment may contribute to a job
seeker meeting their mutual obligation requirements if they are provider
managed.

Centrelink managed job seekers may undertake treatment activities which
may be voluntarily included in their requirements. However, the job
seeker must still undertake the compulsory items that have been approved
by Services Australia and is included in their requirements. For example
part-time work, voluntary work, Quarterly Participation Interviews etc.

Customers undertaking part-time work or self-employment to meet their
requirements, will have this included as a compulsory item. For all
other customers where the TRWC is for 12 weeks or more, the requirements
must include the Job Plan item 'I will attend all appointments made for
me. If I am unable to attend an appointment I will advise Centrelink
before my appointment time'. Where a TRWC is for less than 12 weeks, the
Service Officer must include the 'Reduced Capacity Requirements' item,
which will require a customer to attend any Services Australia scheduled
appointments. All job seekers with a TRWC of less than 15 hours per week
may choose to continue to participate in their current items during this
period but it may only be included in their requirements as a voluntary
item.

Requirement to report

Job seekers with a TRWC will be expected to lodge a Reporting Statement
via Self Service (online or phone), in person or in writing (SU19) and
comply with the terms of their Job Plan.

TRWC of 15 hours or more per week

Job seekers with an assessed TRWC of 15 hours or more per week (who do
not have an assessed PCW of less than 15 hours per week and do not have
an exemption from their mutual obligation requirements) must undertake
compulsory requirements, and will be required to be connected with an
Employment Services Provider. A job seeker can participate in suitable
part-time work or self-employment of at least 15 hours per week to fully
satisfy their requirements. Job seekers who are working more than 15
hours per week may voluntarily leave employment to commence suitable
work of only 15 hours per week without incurring a financial penalty for
unemployment due to a voluntary act. If the job seeker is not
undertaking an approved item which fully meets their requirements, they
must have job search included. The Job Plan will be negotiated by the
provider unless the job seeker is considered to be Centrelink managed.

Related links

Job Plans

Assessment Services

Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) overview

Reporting overview

Reporting requirements for job seekers

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
