-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about the factors in a Job Seeker
Snapshot that trigger the need for a referral for an ESAt. This is also
known as a Job Seeker Snapshot initiated ESAt. The requirement for an
ESAt may also be manually added or removed during the Job Seeker
Snapshot process.

Job Seeker Snapshot

The Job Seeker Snapshot identifies a job seeker's ability to find
suitable employment, determines the level of employment assistance they
may require and whether or not an ESAt is required. The ESAt determines
the level of support that best meets the job seeker's needs, that is,
whether the job seeker will benefit from referral to a Workforce
Australia Services Provider or if they are eligible for a referral to
Disability Employment Services (DES). Job seekers in Community
Development Program (CDP) regions do not require the Job Seeker Snapshot
to be run for streaming purposes. A Job Seeker Snapshot is required for
an ESAt referral for CDP job seekers.

If an ESAt is triggered as a result of the online Job Seeker Snapshot,
the Participation Interview or Start Job seeker registration workflow,
the Job Seeker Snapshot status will display as pending and an
outstanding activity will be created on the customer's record. See
Actioning a pending Job Seeker Snapshot initiated Employment Services
Assessment (ESAt) activity for details.

Job Seeker Snapshot questions presented online

The Job Seeker Snapshot question set may be presented online to some new
customers of JobSeeker Payment (JSP) and Youth Allowance (YA) (other).
In these cases, the job seeker registration and the Job Seeker Snapshot
question set will be skipped at the Participation Interview and the
workflow will go straight to the results page.

In their responses to the Job Seeker Snapshot question set, a job seeker
may disclose that they have barriers which trigger a Job Seeker Snapshot
initiated ESAt.

Barriers may also be identified by Employment Services Providers during
the Job Seeker Snapshot process.

How the Job Seeker Snapshot triggers an ESAt flag

Based on a job seeker's responses to the Job Seeker Snapshot questions,
the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations system may identify
the requirement for an ESAt.

The need for an ESAt can be triggered:

-   by single issues such as if the job seeker identifies as having a
    medical condition that will impact on their ability to work for 3
    months or more, or
-   due to multiple factors that have been identified as potentially
    impacting on the job seeker's ability to find and maintain
    employment

See Actioning a pending Job Seeker Snapshot initiated Employment
Services Assessment (ESAt) activity.

Job seekers who report family trauma, grief or family and domestic
violence should be referred to a Services Australia specialist officer.
This officer will determine when the job seeker should be referred for
an ESAt.

Manually adding an ESAt flag during the Job Seeker Snapshot

Service Officers conducting a Job Seeker Snapshot interview as part of a
Participation Interview at the new claim stage or the standalone Job
Seeker Snapshot via Participation Summary may manually add the ESAt
flag, where the job seeker's responses have not already flagged an ESAt.
This can only be done before the workflow is completed.

This action may be appropriate where the Service Officer considers that
the job seeker has significant non-vocational barriers to employment and
the job seeker either:

-   did not disclose these when they completed the Jobseeker Snapshot as
    part of the new claim process
-   does not disclose these during the Participation Interview, or
-   is unable to recognise or denies non-vocational barriers

The reasons for this manual action must always be documented on the
customer record, to assist staff when making a decision about management
of the pending Job Seeker Snapshot. If an ESAt referral is required, the
details on the record must explain the reasons for the addition of the
ESAt flag. This is so that Assessment Services staff actioning the ESAt
request can make appropriate decisions related to the need for the ESAt
and to ensure the Assessor has sufficient detail about the reasons for
the referral.

Manually removing an ESAt flag during the Job Seeker Snapshot

Service Officers conducting a Job Seeker Snapshot interview as part of a
Participation Interview at new claim stage or the standalone Job Seeker
Snapshot via Participation Summary may manually remove the ESAt flag
even where the job seeker's Job Seeker Snapshot responses have flagged
that an ESAt is required. This can only be done before the workflow is
completed.

This action should only be taken:

-   if there is a clear determination that the issues flagged by the job
    seeker responses to the Job Seeker Snapshot do not have a
    significant impact on the job seeker's ability to work or
    participate in other activities and the job seeker does not have any
    other relevant barriers
-   when the job seeker has provided medical evidence clearly indicating
    they have a serious illness and a Temporary Incapacity exemption
    (serious illness) can be granted. In these circumstances, an ESAt is
    not required and employment assistance services would not be
    appropriate, or
-   in other circumstances where it would not be beneficial to refer for
    an ESAt, for example, the customer is in hospital or undertaking a
    rehabilitation program

Manually removing the ESAt flag should only be done by suitably skilled
Service Officers and the reasons must be clearly documented on the
customer's record.

Note: it is not appropriate for refugee customers (first 12 weeks) to
have their ESAt flag removed. This customer group will have their ESAt
deferred to the end of their activity exemption period at the new claim
interview.

For more information, see Actioning a pending Job Seeker Snapshot
initiated Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) activity.

Reapplying current and valid ESAt during Job Seeker Snapshot

If the Service Officer confirms that the previous ESAt/JCA is current
and valid and should be reapplied, the system will automatically copy
the current ESAt/JCA details across. This removes the requirement for a
new ESAt, and will allow the customer to be referred immediately to
suitable employment assistance services.

A current and valid ESAt/JCA is one which:

-   was submitted within the past 2 years, and
-   reflects the customer's current circumstances and addresses the
    issues and barriers disclosed by the customer in the latest Job
    Seeker Snapshot, and
-   contains a valid recommendation for referral to employment
    assistance services such as Workforce Australia or DES

Note: if the customer has been exited from a DES program with either an
employment or education outcome since the previous ESAt was completed, a
new ESAt will be required even if the previous assessment is less than 2
years old.

See Actioning a pending Job Seeker Snapshot initiated Employment
Services Assessment (ESAt) activity.

Related links

Actioning a pending Job Seeker Snapshot initiated Employment Services
Assessment (ESAt) activity

Assessment Services

Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) and Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)
appointments

Requirement for a Job Seeker Snapshot Initiated Employment Services
Assessment (ESAt) as a result of an Employment Services Provider update

Specialist officers and other internal supports for customers

Enquiries and release of information to Employment Services Providers

Exempting a job seeker from mutual obligation requirements for serious
illness

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
