-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process for approving voluntary work as an
approved activity for eligible job seekers to satisfy their mutual
obligation requirements.

Eligibility for job seekers 55 to 59

Job seekers aged 55 to 59 (inclusive) who are within the first 12 months
of receiving their current income support payments (including suspension
periods of up to 3 months), can choose to fully meet their mutual
obligation requirements by undertaking:

-   30 hours per fortnight of paid work, or
-   30 hours per fortnight of a combination of paid work and approved
    voluntary work, at least 15 hours of which must be paid work

After receiving their current payment for a 12 month period, these job
seekers may fully satisfy their requirements by undertaking 30 hours or
more per fortnight of any combination of approved unpaid voluntary work
and suitable paid work or self-employment. This includes solely through
approved unpaid voluntary work.

Eligibility for job seekers 60+

Job seekers aged 60 to Age Pension age can choose to fully meet their
requirements by undertaking voluntary work, suitable paid work,
self-employment or a combination of these activities for at least 30
hours per fortnight.

Eligibility for job seekers under 55 or with a partial capacity to work (PCW)

Job seekers under 55 and those with a PCW can partially meet their
requirements by undertaking voluntary work only if their Employment
Services Provider decides that voluntary work would improve the job
seeker's employment prospects.

Eligibility for principal carer under 55

Principal carer job seekers under 55 getting JobSeeker Payment (JSP),
Youth Allowance (YA), Parenting Payment (PP) or Special Benefit (SpB)
can fully meet their requirements by undertaking voluntary work, or a
combination of voluntary work and other paid work or study, of at least
30 hours per fortnight.

This can only be approved by their Employment Services Provider or the
Digital Services Contact Centre (for Workforce Australia â€“ online job
seekers), and only if the job seeker lives in a poor labour market, has
limited training opportunities available locally and there are
significant vocational benefits to the voluntary work.

The job seeker is not automatically suspended from Employment Provider
Services while they are 'meeting' their requirements by doing these
activities and must stay connected to their provider, and continue to
attend regular provider appointments.

The job seeker must still be available to accept suitable paid work, or
to accept offers of additional hours of suitable paid work that fit
around any study, and is appropriate for their caring responsibilities.
The job seeker must also accept all referrals to suitable job interviews
while doing the activity.

Note: for principal carers with a dependent child (unless otherwise
requested or agreed by the principal carer), activities and other
requirements should be scheduled to occur during school hours, that is,
generally between 9:00am and 3:00pm during school terms.

Connection with Employment Services Provider

If voluntary work is approved as part of a new claim for an income
support payment, the job seeker still must be connected with an
appropriate Employment Services Provider and has to attend their initial
appointment.

All job seekers can participate in voluntary work as a voluntary
activity, however this may not always fully meet their mutual obligation
requirements and the job seeker may need to participate in additional
activities. Note: do not update the Job Plan if the job seeker is a
Disability Employment Services (DES) participant.

Services Australia can approve the activity for the job seeker if it
meets all the requirements to be considered an approved activity. Once
the approved activities are recorded on the job seeker's record and the
job seeker is fully meeting their requirements through voluntary work,
details are sent to the Department of Employment and Workplace
Relations, the job seeker will be automatically suspended from their
Employment Services Provider. While a job seeker is suspended from
Employment Provider Services, they will be fully meeting their
requirements.

These job seekers are not required to attend Employment Services
Provider appointments unless it is to refer the job seeker for a job or
job interview. However, they must stay connected to their Employment
Services Provider, be available for suitable paid work, accept offers of
additional hours of suitable paid work, and must accept all referrals to
suitable job interviews while doing voluntary work.

Approval of voluntary work

For voluntary work to be an approved activity, the organisation must be
approved as a voluntary work organisation by Services Australia and
included in the Local Activities Database (LAD).

The job seeker must complete a Voluntary Work - Verification of Approved
Voluntary Work (SU462) form to seek approval to do voluntary work as an
approved activity.

Regardless of the circumstances in which it is undertaken, voluntary
work must:

-   occur without payment other than for out of pocket expenses
-   have a community focus
-   not be undertaken in the job seeker's own home
-   not primarily promote a particular religious or political view
-   not involve working for the job seeker's (or a family member's) own
    organisation
-   not involve violence towards people or damage to property
-   not undertake tasks which would normally be done by a paid employee,
    including a casual or part-time paid employee
-   not reduce hours usually worked by a paid employee or reduce
    overtime of an existing employee

Voluntary work organisations must provide evidence of their 'not for
profit' status and appropriate insurance cover for both Public Liability
and Personal Accident when submitting a Voluntary Work - request for
Organisational Approval (SU461) form. The timeframe for completing an
assessment depends on when the organisation provides the necessary
evidence. Service Officers can ask about the status of an organisation's
assessment by contacting the Voluntary Organisation Team.

Where an organisation is not approved as a voluntary work organisation,
Service Officers should advise job seekers they can start voluntary work
but it will not contribute to their requirements. To continue getting
their income support payment, the job seeker must continue to meet their
requirements by doing the approved activities, and continue going to all
compulsory appointments. The job seeker must also be willing to enter
into a new Job Plan and agree to suitable activities if requested.

Note: if the job seeker must attend a 'base' or like place, and is
participating in a work-like activity for the duration of their time on
call, these hours may count towards their voluntary work hours.

If the job seeker is going about their daily life, without participating
in any work-like activity while on call, these hours cannot be counted
towards their voluntary work hours.

Approving voluntary work for job seekers 55 years or older

If Services Australia is approving voluntary work for job seekers 55
years or older who fully meet their requirements, any previous
compulsory activities the job seeker was required to do, must be updated
on the job seekers record. Tell the job seeker they still need to attend
all referrals to job interviews, accept suitable job offers arranged by
their Employment Services Provider, and keep their registration with
their provider.

Combinations of activities

To meet their requirements mature age job seekers may do any combination
of the following:

-   part-time work
-   self-employment
-   voluntary work

The combined time for the activities must be at least 30 hours per
fortnight and any income from paid work or net business income for
self-employment, must not be less than the national minimum wage.

Job seekers must negotiate an appropriate Job Plan.

What if the requirements are not met?

There may be times when a job seeker has not completed the required
hours or earned a sufficient level of income to satisfy their
requirements for a fortnight. Notification that the job seeker has
failed to meet agreed voluntary work activity may come from the job
seeker or the voluntary work organisation. Service Officers should check
if the job seeker has a reasonable excuse for not meeting the
requirements of their Job Plan and that working hours should return to
normal in the next fortnight. The only acceptable excuses for failing to
meet requirements are:

-   job seeker ill or injured
-   sick children
-   a cancelled shift
-   a short term reduction in hours due to public holidays
-   pupil-free days
-   failure of special disability related transport

Reasonable excuse and limitations of its use

A reasonable excuse may apply to someone who does ongoing volunteer work
for a community organisation that closes over the Christmas/New Year
period. However, someone whose voluntary work ceases or reduces below 30
hours per fortnight for the near future is not considered to have a
reasonable excuse. Reasonable excuse provisions are not intended to give
someone time to find other voluntary work.

There are strict limits on how often a reasonable excuse is acceptable
before the job seeker's activities must be renegotiated.

Requirement for new Job Plan and/or reconnection with their provider

If the job seeker fails to meet the voluntary work activity, they must
negotiate new activities, usually including job search.

New activities must be negotiated when any of the following apply:

-   the job seeker is less than 55 and has given a reasonable excuse for
    2 consecutive fortnights
-   the job seeker is 55 or over and has given a reasonable excuse for 3
    consecutive fortnights
-   the job seeker is any age and does not have a reasonable excuse

If the job seeker remains Centrelink managed, Services Australia must
negotiate a Job Plan. If the job seeker becomes Employment Services
Provider managed, refer them to their provider to negotiate a Job Plan.

Approved Activity Review

Centrelink managed job seekers undertaking voluntary work to fully meet
their mutual obligation requirements are required to update their Job
Plan every 12 months (363 days) and have their circumstances reviewed. A
new Job Plan is negotiated as part of their annual Approved Activity
Review. Job seekers will receive either an approved online task or a
request to contact letter if they are not signed up for self service.
The notification is issued 28 days before the expiry date of the
approved activity on the Activity and Exemption Summary (AEX) screen.

The Resources page contains an example of how voluntary work and
suitable paid work can fully satisfy a job seeker's mutual obligation
requirements. It also contains link to the Local Activities Database
(LAD) and Voluntary Organisation Team contact details.

Related links

Approved requirements for principal carers

Mutual obligation requirements exemptions

Altered processes and mutual obligation requirements for job seekers due
to coronavirus (COVID-19) response

Voluntary work organisations

Selection or allocation of a Workforce Australia Employment Services
Provider

Employment Services Providers

Disability employment assistance services and programs

Employment assistance for people with a disability

Approved mutual obligation requirements for mature age customers

Negotiating Centrelink Managed Job Plans

Reporting overview

Reporting requirements for job seekers

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
