
Initial contact from customers in rural and remote areas 002-01000000

-   Background

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about the range of assistance that
can be offered to customers who reside in rural and remote areas when
they first contact Services Australia.

Government intent

There is a range of services and assistance that can be offered to
customers who reside in rural and remote areas. When a customer contacts
about claiming a payment or service from Services Australia, appropriate
payments and services should be identified for them to claim based on
their circumstances. Information and government services are to be
available and accessed by all Australians. Services such as Mobile
Service Centres make access easier for customers in rural and remote
communities.

First contact from customer

When a customer contacts to claim a payment, they need to give details
of their personal circumstances. The agency will then assess the
customer's circumstances and match the most appropriate products and
services that best meet their situation, whether they are self-employed
or involved in a farming enterprise.

Service delivery

The agency has designed its service delivery around the personal
circumstances a customer experiences. Customers do not have to know
about the details of particular entitlements but only have to explain
their circumstances to a Service Officer who will assess the range of
products and services available based on these circumstances. It is the
responsibility of the Service Officer to make sure:

-   the agency is providing all products and services appropriate to
    each customer's needs
-   an appropriate service offer is made

Contents

Initial contact by a self-employed customer or a farmer

Access Support Centres (ASC)

Australian Government Mobile Service Centres

Silver Service phone line for Specified Personnel at Agent sites

Interpreter Services

Indigenous Employment Program

Community Development Program (CDP)

Related links

Identifying a package of services for rural customers

Identifying and offering a package of services for an Indigenous
customer

Farm Household Allowance (FHA)

Centrelink Agents and Access Points

First Contact Service Offer workflow

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
