
Contact requirements for Crisis Payment (CrP) 003-22061604

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

Policy

Social Security Guide, 8.1.1.60, Contacting Services Australia about a
claim

National Health Emergency

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.10, Qualification for CrP - General
Provisions

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.45, Qualification for CrP - National Health
Emergency (NHE)

General provisions for CrP

Social Security Guide, 1.2.6.30, Crisis Payment (CrP) - Description

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4, CrP - Qualification and Payability

Social Security Guide, 5.1.6.30, CrP - Current Rates

Social Security Guide, 5.3.1.10, Taxation of Payments and PAYG Payment
Summary - Individual Non-Business

Released prisoners

Social Security Guide, 3.1.4.05, Payability During Periods in Gaol or
Psychiatric Confinement

Social Security Guide, 3.1.4.30, Payment after Release

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.40, Qualification for CrP - Released
Prisoners

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.70, Payability of CrP - Released Prisoners

Extreme circumstances

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.20, Qualification for CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (domestic and family violence)

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.25, Qualification for CrP - Remaining in
their home after removal of family member due to domestic or family
violence

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.30, Qualification for CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (other)

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.50, Payability of CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (domestic and family violence)

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.55, Payability of CrP - Remaining in home
after removal of a family member due to domestic or family violence

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.60, Payability of CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (other)

Extreme circumstances - family and domestic violence

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.25, Qualification for CrP - Remaining in
their home after removal of family member due to domestic or family
violence

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.20, Qualification for CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (domestic & family violence)

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.50, Payability of CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (domestic & family violence)

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.55, Payability of CrP - Remaining in home
after removal of a family member due to domestic or family violence

Social Security Guide 1.1.D.235 Domestic and/or family violence (CrP)

Other extreme circumstances

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.30, Qualification for CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (other)

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.60, Payability of CrP - Extreme
Circumstances (other)

Humanitarian entrant

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.35, Qualification for CrP - Humanitarian
entrant

Social Security Guide, 3.7.4.65, Payability of CrP - Humanitarian
entrant

Legislation

Links to the Federal Register of Legislation site go to a 'Series' page.
Select the ‘Latest’ version.

Social Security Act 1991

section 6, Social Security (Coronavirus Economic Response—2020 Measures
No.2) Determination 2020, Part 2 Qualification, Qualification for crisis
payment—national health emergency

section 19D, Crisis Payment definition

section 23(5), In goal-definition

-   subsection 5, a person is in goal if..

section 1061JG, Qualification - release from gaol or psychiatric
confinement

section 1061JH, Qualification - extreme circumstances forcing departure
from home

section 1061JIA, Qualification - National Health Emergency

section 1061JI(1)(c), Qualification - humanitarian entrant to Australia

section 1061JJ, Crisis Payment not payable in addition to disaster
relief payment

section 1061JK, Crisis Payment not payable if assurance of support in
force

section 1061JU, Amount of payment

section 1158, Some social security payments not payable during period in
gaol or in psychiatric confinement following criminal charge

section 1223, Debts arising from lack of qualification, overpayment etc.

subsection 1, Subject to this section, if...'

subsection 1AA, If a Social Security payment is made to...'

section 1223(1), Recipient not qualified for payment or amount not
payable

section 1223(1AA), Not qualified and amount not payable

-   subsection 1AA, If a social security payment is made to

section 1223(1AB), Not released from gaol or psychiatric confinement on
expected date of release

-   subsection 1AB, Without limiting by implication the circumstances to

section 1223AA(1C), Debts arising from prepayments

-   subsection 1C, If: a payment has been made to a person

Social Security (Administration) Act 1999

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
