
Australian Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP) - 2017 London (15 September 2017) attack - Parsons Green 003-17112000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

The claiming period for this event has now closed, unless special
circumstances apply.

This document contains event specific information about the Australian
Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP) for the 2017 London (15
September 2017) attack - Parsons Green. AVTOP is a one off payment of up
to $75,000. The purpose of AVTOP is to provide financial assistance to
Australians who have been harmed as a direct result of the 2017 London
(15 September 2017) attack - Parsons Green, or who are a close family
member of a person who has died as a direct result of the 2017 London
(15 September 2017) attack - Parsons Green.

On this Page:

Declared overseas terrorist act

The terrorist act that occurred in London, United Kingdom at
approximately 8.20 am (local time) on 15 September 2017 on a train at
Parsons Green Station.

Claiming periods

Primary victim claims

Primary victims have 2 years from the date the declaration was signed by
the Prime Minister to claim.

Secondary victim

Secondary victims have 12 months from the death of the close family
member to claim. The death of the close family member must be a direct
result of, and have occurred within 2 years of, the declared terrorist
act.

For the 2017 London (15 September 2017) attack - Parsons Green the close
family member must have died on or before 14 September 2019.

The claiming period for secondary victims closed on 14 September 2020,
unless special circumstances apply.

Eligibility for AVTOP

A person is eligible for AVTOP if:

-   the person was an Australian resident, or held a qualifying
    residence exemption, on the day the terrorist act occurred, and
-   the person must have been in the location of, and harmed as a direct
    result of, the terrorist act (primary victim), or be a close family
    member of a person who died as a direct result of a terrorist act
    (secondary victim), and
-   the person must not have been involved in the commission of the
    terrorist act, and must not have had family members involved in the
    commission of the terrorist act

There is no age limit.

Claim will be assessed on a case by case basis.

Maximum amount payable

Where a claimant is harmed (primary victim) and a close family member
dies as a direct result of the same terrorist act (secondary victim),
the maximum payment any 1 person can receive is $150,000. For example:

-   where a claimant is harmed and also loses a close family member,
    they may qualify for up to $75,000 for their injuries and up to
    $75,000 for the deceased close family member
-   if the deceased has multiple close family members, then the $75,000
    that is payable in respect of the deceased may be shared among the
    eligible family members who submit a claim

Where a claim is lodged for 2 close family members who have died as a
direct result of the same declared terrorist act, the maximum payment 1
person can receive is $75,000, as a secondary victim of any one
terrorist act, regardless of how many close family members have died as
a direct result of the event.

Proof of identity requirements

A claimant will need to confirm their identity by providing identity
documents. See Confirming a customer’s identity and Identity
Confirmation

For the purposes of claiming AVTOP a clamant over the age of 16 will
need to provide 1 document from each of the 3 categories below:

-   Commencement of Identity (for example, a valid Australian passport,
    birth or citizenship certificate)
-   Primary Use in Community (for example, a driver's licence or proof
    of age card)
-   Secondary Use in Community (for example, an ATM/bank card or
    educational certificate)

For the purpose of claiming AVTOP on behalf of a child, the claimant may
need to provide identity documents on behalf of the child. These
documents include:

-   one Commencement of Identity document (for example, a valid
    Australian passport, birth or citizenship certificate), or
-   any other documents required to confirm the child's identity

A period of up to 28 days can apply for the provision of proof of
identity documentation, with an extension granted in exceptional
circumstances.

Lodgement of claim

To enquire about the Australian Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment,
claimants may call the Australian Victim of Terrorism Overseas Hotline.
The operating hours for the Australian Victim of Terrorism Overseas
Hotline can vary, refer to the Services Australia Website for current
details. The Resources page contains a link.

Claimants may also download a claim form from the Services Australia
Website and post the completed claim form and supporting documentation.

Keywords

Once a claim has been uploaded into Customer First, the claim will need
to be indexed and have the appropriate keyword.

Claims that are to be rejected will also need to be indexed with the
relevant keywords. The Resources page contains a table of keywords for
indexing a claim and rejecting an unsuccessful claim.

Note: unsuccessful claims cannot be rejected until approval has been
sought from the Emergency Management Level 2 Helpdesk.

Travel advice

Where possible, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade will provide
Services Australia with the travel advices applicable to the 2017 London
(15 September 2017) attack - Parsons Green for the period 6 months prior
to the terrorist act. The Resources page contains travel advices that
have been received. For information on how to apply a reduction based on
the travel advices, see Reductions and Deductions for the Australian
Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP).

Withdrawal of claim

If a claimant wishes to withdraw a claim it must be done before the
claim has been determined.

The Resources page contains keywords used for claims and links to
contact details for Emergency Management Helpdesk and Teams, Australian
Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP) claims, maps of the
affected areas, travel advices and links to external websites.

Related links

Claiming Australian Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP)

Primary victim eligibility and rate calculation for the Australian
Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP)

Secondary victim eligibility and rate calculation for the Australian
Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP)

Reductions and Deductions for the Australian Victim of Terrorism
Overseas Payment (AVTOP)

Australian Victim of Terrorism Overseas Payment (AVTOP) claims lodged
outside of the time limit

Identity Confirmation

Quality On Line (QOL) checklist for Australian Victim of Terrorism
Overseas Payment (AVTOP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
