
Social worker assessment for Crisis Payment (CrP) Extreme Circumstances family and domestic violence 003-12060010

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

Risks to a customer's privacy have been identified. See Separating
Safely - protecting personal details to make sure the customer's
personal details are safe before progressing.

If a child is in immediate danger or risk of harm you must act, and a
delegate must call 000. If you have concerns about a child’s safety,
conduct the risk and referral process.

For Services Australia social workers only.

This document explains the role Services Australia social workers have
in assessing claims for Crisis Payment (CrP) in relation to family and
domestic violence. This also provides the social worker with the
opportunity to offer appropriate help and referral to other services to
these customers.

Social worker responsibilities

Social workers are the only ones delegated to assess if a family and
domestic violence situation occurred. They use this delegation when
determining entitlement to Crisis Payment (CrP) due to family and
domestic violence.

There are 3 scenarios when Services Officers must refer customers to a
social worker if they are claiming CrP for extreme circumstances family
and domestic violence. See Social worker delegation in New claim for
Crisis Payment under extreme circumstances family and domestic violence.

The role of Service Officers

Establishing entitlement for CrP will rely on the Service Officer and
social worker working together co-operatively, as the customer's first
point of contact maybe:

-   online,
-   phone or in person with a Service Officer

If the customer is claiming by phone or in person, the Service Officer,
if possible, should review the claim to assess if the customer meets the
basic eligibility criteria. Service Officers decide the main payment
entitlement.

Note: a ‘Claim for Crisis Payment extreme circumstances and domestic
violence (SU510)’ form is not needed, as claim details can be taken
verbally.

Child safe framework

Services Australia has a zero tolerance approach to child abuse.

A staff member must act when they see or hear behaviour, which raises
concern about a child or young person’s safety. Follow the agency's Risk
Identification and Reporting model when identifying and responding to
child safety concerns. See Risk identification and management of threats
to the safety or welfare of a child.

Related links

Family and domestic violence

Risk identification and management of threats to the safety or welfare
of a child

Eligibility for Crisis Payment (CrP)

New claim for Crisis Payment under extreme circumstances family and
domestic violence

Recording Crisis Payment (CrP) assessments in the Social Work
Information System (SWIS)

Exempting a job seeker from mutual obligation requirements due to
special circumstances

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
