
Recording Crisis Payment (CrP) assessments in the Social Work Information System (SWIS) 003-12130060

-   Background
-   Process
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

If a child is in immediate danger or risk of harm you must act, and a
delegate must call 000. If you have concerns about a child’s safety,
conduct the risk and referral process.

For Services Australia social workers only.

This document outlines the different categories and fields used by
Services Australia social workers to record CrP assessments in SWIS.

Child safe framework

Services Australia has a zero tolerance approach to the harm of
children. There are specific steps that staff must take if they see
behaviour that raises concern about a child's safety. Follow Services
Australia's Risk Identification and Reporting model when identifying and
responding to child safety concerns.

See Risk identification and management of threats to the safety or
welfare of a child for more information about this model and Services
Australia’s commitment to child safety.

Record referrals and contacts in SWIS

Delegated CrP referrals and contacts should only be recorded in SWIS
where a delegated decision is made for family and domestic violence. In
this case an assessment report must be completed.

For category ‘Extreme circumstances - Other’, an assessment report is
not generated or completed.

Assessments for family and domestic violence

Social workers have delegation for all CrP assessments for family and
domestic violence. This includes where the victim is staying at home,
leaving home, and where the actual or alleged perpetrator is forced to
leave the home. For all assessments, there is the requirement to obtain
third party verification.

Assessments for extreme circumstances 'other'

Claims for most 'Crisis Payments - extreme circumstances (other)' do not
need the involvement of a social worker. However, social workers can
assess these claims where there are multiple issues that need a
professional assessment to determine a person's eligibility.

Social workers assist the most vulnerable and complex customers who may
be in crisis. They complete a professional assessment to make a
determination as specified in the Guide to the Administration of Social
Security Law. For all assessments, there is the requirement to obtain
third party verification.

Related links

Social worker assessment for Crisis Payment (CrP) Extreme Circumstances
family and domestic violence

Eligibility for Crisis Payment (CrP)

Risk identification and management of threats to the safety or welfare
of a child

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
