
Activation, cancellation, transfer and expiry of an Assurance of Support (AoS) case 005-03050010

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This document outlines how the Assurance of Support (AoS) Processing
team activates, cancels, transfers or expires an AoS case. A received
application must be accepted, rejected, withdrawn or cancelled. If
accepted the AoS can be: activated to current, cancelled, transferred or
expired.

Activating an AoS case

Activation usually occurs when the status updates from accepted (ACC) to
current (CUR). This happens when assuree/s arrive in Australia with the
relevant visa (off shore visas), or the relevant visa is granted while
the assuree/s are in Australia (on shore visas), whichever is later.

The start date for each individual assuree should populate automatically
via the Department of Home Affairs datalink.

Where the datalink with the Department of Home Affairs has not worked,
AoS processing staff can manually update.

Cancelling an AoS case

AoS accepted but the AoS affected visa not granted

An AoS may be cancelled (CAN) once accepted (ACC) if the request to
cancel the AoS has been made before the relevant visa application has
been granted by the Department of Home Affairs in the following
situations:

-   withdrawal or rejection of the visa application by the Department of
    Home Affairs
-   request for AoS withdrawal by the assurer/s and the visa application
    has not been granted

The assurer/s will need to provide written confirmation from the
Department of Home Affairs that the visa application had either not
already been granted and or the visa application has been cancelled.

Once the AoS is cancelled the Department of Home Affairs will be
notified that the AoS application has been cancelled for one of the
above reasons.

The visa applicant/s will need to find another assurer/s to enable the
visa application to be granted. The visa application lodged with the
Department of Home Affairs requires an AoS to be in place for the visa
application to be granted.

If the AoS is cancelled and the assurer/s have lodged a bank guarantee
supported by a term deposit as part of the AoS application process the
bank guarantee can be cancelled and the term deposit funds refunded. See
Assurance of Support (AoS) bank guarantee and term deposit, cancellation
of a bank guarantee.

AoS accepted but the AoS affected visa has been granted

If the visa application has already been granted by the Department of
Home Affairs, an AoS can only be cancelled (CAN) due to limited special
circumstances. If additional policy advice is required, the AoS business
team will seek confirmation from the Department of Social Services
(DSS).

Note: financial hardship alone on behalf of the assurer/s is not
considered a special circumstance to justify cancellation of the AoS.

The following situations may be considered for cancellation of the AoS:

-   the assuree's visa has been cancelled by Department of Home Affairs
-   the assuree, other than for a Community Support Programme (CSP)
    entrant, is subsequently granted a refugee visa after arrival in
    Australia
-   the incapacity of an assuree identified in an Assurance of Support
    to travel to Australia before the expiration date of a visa due to a
    deteriorating serious medical condition. This should be supported by
    a medical certificate issued by a registered medical practitioner
    and supported by medical evidence that the condition will not
    improve and is likely to deteriorate
-   special circumstances exist such as an accident, disability, illness
    or other circumstance that has critically affected the assurer/s
    ability to provide adequate support. Death of a sole assurer or
    assuree will auto expire and AoS case, see Death of an assurer or
    assuree

AoS legislation does not permit the cancellation of an AoS if an assuree
is granted a permanent visa or gains Australian citizenship. The AoS,
and the bank guarantee supported by a term deposit when applicable, will
remain in force until the expiry of the AoS.

Request for partial release of the AoS security

Once an AoS is cancelled for an assuree the assurer/s may request the
partial release of the term deposit funds held as security before expiry
of the AoS. The purpose of the bank guarantee supported by a term
deposit is to provide security for the AoS. It ensures that the
Australian Government can recover an AoS debt incurred by the assurer/s
under the terms of the AoS. Services Australia will recover the amount
of any AoS debt from the term deposit in the first instance.

Where an assurer/s requests the early release of part of the term
deposit, the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) can be authorised to
release part of the term deposit in the following circumstance, provided
that the assuree has not received an AoS recoverable income support
payment:

-   there is a single bank guarantee secured by a term deposit in
    respect of 2 assurees and 1 assuree dies, the relevant portion of
    security can be released.
    For example: a term deposit of $14,000 has been lodged to secure a
    bank guarantee, $10,000 for X, who is the primary applicant for a
    contributory parent visa and $4,000 for Y who is the secondary
    applicant for a contributory parent visa. If X, the primary
    applicant dies $10,000 of the term deposit lodged for X (who is
    deceased) can be released. A term deposit for $4,000 remains.

Transfer of an AoS case

If the decision is that the AoS cannot be cancelled, the assurer/s may
attempt to find alternate assurer/s. That is effectively transferring
the AoS responsibilities to another person/s. These responsibilities
include:

-   taking over the remainder of the AoS period
-   lodging a new application and be found to be eligible
-   lodging a bank guarantee supported by a term deposit if required

The existing AoS can then be cancelled to complete the transfer. A
transfer may occur in situations where Services Australia considers that
there is a special circumstance. The transfer would need to lead to a
beneficial outcome for all parties. A new AoS is obtained to replace the
existing AoS. While a new AoS replaces the old, it effectively transfers
the responsibilities of the existing assurer/s to other assurer/s. The
new AoS period has the same start and end dates as the AoS being
replaced.

The agency may make a determination to transfer and cancel an existing
AoS due to special circumstances, these would be:

-   a long term injury or illness (individual)
-   liquidation of a company (Body)
-   if family and domestic violence is substantiated.

A transfer would only be beneficial to protect government outlays and
ensure ongoing support for the assuree/s.

Expiring an AoS case

The end date of an AoS case is calculated automatically when the start
date is recorded. The end date calculates automatically based on the
visa subclass stated in the AoS. Once the end of the AoS period is
reached, the AoS case automatically expires.

When the start date is coded, it automatically creates a future activity
that will expire the AoS case when the end date arrives. The same
activity also issues letters to the assuree/s and assurer/s attached to
the AoS case outlining that the AoS case has expired. If a bank
guarantee supported by a term deposit has a remaining balance with the
Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA), a letter will issue to the bank
confirming the amount of funds for release to the account holder/s.

The AoS Processing team is responsible for completing any expiry
activity, as it may involve a debt calculation being undertaken if an
AoS recoverable payment was paid to the assure/s.

The Resources page contains a table of AoS status codes and Department
of Home Affairs contact details.

Related links

Assurance of Support (AoS) bank guarantee and term deposit

Death of an assurer or assuree

Processing applications to become an assurer

The Assurance of Support (AoS) scheme

Recovery of Assurance of Support (AoS) debts

Raising Assurance of Support (AoS) debts

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
