
Rate of Parental Leave Pay (PPL) and Dad and Partner Pay (DAP) 007-02060000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines rates of payment for Parental Leave Pay (PPL) and
Dad and Partner Pay (DAP).

Claim choice

Customers with a newborn or recently adopted child: customers can claim
either PPL or have their entitlement to Newborn Supplement (NBS) and
Newborn Upfront Payment (NBU) assessed with Family Tax Benefit (FTB).
PPL and NBS cannot be paid for the same child. For a multiple birth or
entrustment to care, PPL can be paid for one child and the higher rate
of NBS/NBU for other children.

DAP can be paid to dads and partners caring for a newborn or adopted
child. DAP can be paid before, after or at the same time as FTB,
including NBS and NBU.

A family can receive a maximum of 20 weeks DAP and PPL combined for the
same child (for example, 2 weeks DAP may be paid to the father at the
same time that 18 weeks PPL is paid to the mother). One customer can
receive both DAP and PPL for the same child but the periods must be
different and must not exceed 18 weeks in total.

In the event of a stillbirth, customers may choose to claim PPL, or
Stillborn Baby Payment (SBP) if they are not eligible for PPL. SBP is
paid as a lump sum. PPL is paid in fortnightly instalments.

PPL

The PPL rate is based on the National Minimum Wage rate. From 1 July
2022, the current rate of PPL is $812.45 per week. Note: due to the
legislated calculation method, the weekly rate of PPL is slightly lower
than the rate of the weekly National Minimum Wage, which is $812.45.

The PPL income test applies to eligibility and does not affect the rate
of PPL.

PPL is paid at the National Minimum Wage for up to 18 weeks (90 payable
days) to eligible customers.

It is a taxable payment and therefore should be included in the Adjusted
Taxable Income (ATI) for family assistance payments.

For children born or entrusted to care:

-   on or after 1 October 2016, income from PPL is counted as assessable
    ordinary income for calculating the rate of payment for income
    support payments
-   prior to 1 October 2016, PPL is not counted as assessable income for
    income support payments

For multiple births, PPL can be paid for one child and Newborn
Supplement (NBS) and Newborn Upfront Payment (NBU) for each additional
child.

DAP

The DAP rate is based on the National Minimum Wage rate. From 1 July
2022, the current rate of DAP is $812.45 per week. Note: due to the
legislated calculation method, the weekly rate of PPL is slightly lower
than the rate of the weekly National Minimum Wage, which is $812.45.

The DAP income test applies to eligibility and does not affect the rate
of DAP.

DAP is paid at the National Minimum Wage for up to 2 weeks to eligible
customers.

It is a taxable payment and therefore should be included in Adjusted
Taxable Income (ATI) for family assistance payments.

For children born or entrusted to care:

-   on or after 1 October 2016, income from DAP is counted as assessable
    ordinary income for calculating the rate of payment for income
    support payments
-   prior to 1 October 2016, DAP is not counted as assessable income for
    income support payments

For multiple births or multiple children adopted as part of the same
adoption process, DAP is only payable for one child.

Indexation

The maximum rates of PPL and DAP are indexed on 1 July each year, in
line with the National Minimum Wage.

The Process page contains historical DAP/PPL rate information.

The References page contains a link to historical rate information.

The Resources page contains links to the Services Australia website and
Intranet.

Related links

Payment rates and thresholds

Rate explanation screens for family assistance and Paid Parental Leave
scheme payments

Eligibility for Parental Leave Pay (PPL) as a primary claimant

Eligibility for Dad and Partner Pay (DAP)

Eligibility for Newborn Supplement (NBS) and Newborn Upfront Payment
(NBU)

Eligibility for Stillborn Baby Payment (SBP)

Claim choice for a newborn or adopted child

Delivery of Parental Leave Pay (PPL)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
