
Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to child income 007-11090050

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information when the Family Tax Benefit (FTB)
reconciliation overpayment is identified as partly or entirely due to a
child’s income being equal to or above the child income limit for the
relevant financial year. Reconciliation overpayments due to child income
only apply from the 2000 -01 financial year (the year of introduction of
the child income limit) to the 2013-14 financial year (as the child
income limit was abolished from 1 May 2014).

On this Page:

Child income overpayments

Child income overpayments are qualification overpayments and may have
been raised as soon as it became known that the child's income would be
equal to or over the limit for the relevant financial year. If the
child's income is equal to or above the child income limit, the child is
not an FTB child from the date they turn 16 or the date they cease
full-time study, whichever is earlier.

System calculated overpayment

Before reconciliation, a system calculated child income overpayment may
have been incorrectly adjusted. The system checks these adjusted debts
at reconciliation and includes them in the reconciliation calculation.

Supplements included in the reconciliation calculation

Part A and Part B supplements and Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS)
if eligible, are included in the reconciliation calculation once
adequate income/ not required to lodge details are available. FTB
top-ups, including supplement and SIFS entitlement, are automatically
used for debt offsetting.

Related links

Reconciliation of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Debt offsetting during family assistance reassessment, reconciliation
and claim processing

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) child income

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
estimated income

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child support issues

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
shared care

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
blended family percentage

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child leaving care

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
Centrelink lump sum claim

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
