
Shared care for social security payments 007-02050000

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

This document explains the assessment of entitlement to social security
payments where a customer advises a new shared care arrangement or a
change to an existing arrangement. The decision for social security
payments is separate to the decision for Family Tax Benefit (FTB).

Shared care

Shared care is where a child is jointly cared for by 2 or more people
who are not members of the same couple. If a child spends time, for
example on weekends or school holidays, with someone else (such as their
other parent if the parents are separated), each carer can be deemed to
have a shared care arrangement.

A shared care assessment should be completed in all cases, even if only
one person is claiming income support or if each person has another
qualifying child solely in their care. The shared care assessment will
determine the principal carer status which will determine a customer's
entitlement and in some cases will affect the rate and income test
applied for ongoing entitlements for single principal carers Customers
with shared care arrangements, but are not the principal carer may still
be entitled to a 'with child' rate of payment for JobSeeker Payment
(JSP), Youth Allowance (YA) and Special Benefit (SpB). Care should be
taken to ensure the change in care is not a temporary change in care,
for more information on temporary changes, see Child leaves customer's
care/custody.

Customers may become eligible as a principal carer due to an increase in
their level of shared care of a child. In such cases, the care
arrangement must be confirmed with the other person caring for the
child. Investigate all notifications of a change in care by gathering
relevant information from both customers (even if customers are
reporting a reduced level of care for themselves).

Mutual customer

Where a shared care assessment is in place for an existing customer,
updates may be required which will affect the customer's income support
where a mutual customer notifies the Services Australia of changes to
their care arrangements.

If the customer notifies Child Support of a change, the percentage of
care will be assessed and transferred across from Child Support. A
revised decision may be required for social security purposes when the
new assessment from Child Support is received. A Child Support Manual
Follow-up (MFU) is generated to identify customers whose social security
rate may need to be reassessed following a care determination from Child
Support.

Eligibility for extra assistance

Customers may be entitled to the following extra assistance where they
have a child in their care, including being assessed as a principal
carer, or as having a dependent child in care where the care is shared
care or regular care. Regular care entitles a customer to extra
assistance even though the dependent child definition is not met:

-   the person considered to be the principal carer of the child may
    qualify for Parenting Payment (PP) if they have an eligible child in
    their care under 6 years of age Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP) or
    8 years of age Parenting Payment Single (PPS)
-   the person considered to be the principal carer of the child may
    qualify for JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Special Benefit (SpB) or Youth
    Allowance (YA) (job seeker) at a higher 'with child' rate if they
    are single and have a child in their care aged under 16 years
-   JSP and SpB single principal carers have access to a separate income
    test where they can earn more before income affects their payment,
    have reduced participation requirements and access to the Pensioner
    Concession Card
-   The 'with child' rate may be payable to single JSP, YA and SpB
    customers who have a dependent child in their care (14% or more) but
    who are not considered a principal carer. Customers with a dependent
    student child from 16-22 years of age inclusive, may also continue
    to receive the 'with child' rate
-   An additional child income free area may be available for PPS
    customers who have a dependent child in their care but who are not
    considered the principal carer of that child. There is no
    restriction on the percentage of care the customer needs to have for
    the child, providing they continue to have at least one child under
    8 in their principal care

In some cases, the higher rate may be payable to JobSeeker Payment and
Youth Allowance (jobseeker) if the dependent child definition is not met
due to the level of care if the customer has regular care of the child
(14% or more). The customer must have either legal responsibility (alone
or jointly with another person) for the day to day care, welfare and
development of a child or a family law order or parenting plan which
states the child is supposed to live with the customer.

For the customer to be assessed as having a 'regular care' child in care
the customer needs to demonstrate that:

-   they have at least 14% care of the child in the current instalment
    period (one night per week during the fortnight), or
-   the pattern of care shows they have at least 14% care of the child
    over either a 14 or 28 day period. This may include a past or future
    period but should include at least part of the current instalment
    period

Family assistance

Customers may be eligible to claim family assistance for children in
their care. The Resources page contains standard text to be used in the
Q888, inviting the customer to claim Family Tax Benefit (FTB). Customers
caring for a child from a previous relationship may need to take action
to obtain child support to receive more than the base rate of FTB Part A
for a child. Customers may claim Child Care Subsidy (CCS) to help with
the costs of child care if they are eligible.

Confirmation of change of care

A mandatory attempt to confirm the change of care with the previous
carer must be made to ensure that payments are made to the correct
person, that each customer receives their correct entitlement and to
reduce the need for reviews.

If the previous carer has not notified the change of care, or there is
disagreement over the care arrangement, the customer must provide
evidence to support the actual care arrangements.

It is important that claims are processed quickly to reduce the chance
of an overpayment for the previous carer and to ensure that the customer
claiming is not disadvantaged.

If a change of care is:

-   temporary, the current customer may remain entitled to payments for
    the child and may remain the principal carer of the child during the
    absence, see Child leaves customer's care/custody
-   part of a pattern of care (care of the child is shared between 2 or
    more people over a certain period), a shared care assessment may be
    needed. The customer may wish to claim a shared care income support
    payment, see Step 3 in Change in care arrangements table
-   disputed, a customer may continue to receive FTB for the child for a
    period between 4 and 52 weeks and may remain the principal carer if
    the child has left their care without their consent or if it is
    disputed care. See Notification and assessment of shared care
    arrangements for Family Tax Benefits (FTB). For changes in care that
    occur on or after 1 July 2012, discretion can be applied to disputed
    care and left care without consent cases to decide the percentage of
    care be immediately based on the actual level of care if there are
    special circumstances which support that outcome. See Child out of
    care without consent

A mutual customer of family assistance and Child Support can notify
Services Australia of changes to their care arrangements. After the care
determination is made, the care information will be transferred for the
assessment of family assistance and child support entitlements.

Note: where the change in care relates to a child receiving Youth
Allowance or ABSTUDY as a dependent the parent for the purposes of the
Parental Means Test may have also changed. See Principal carer of a
dependent child.

The Resources page contains information relating to a shared care system
problem, a link to the relevant form, shared care calendars, contact
details for Child Support and information about the letters produced
with the Child - Change in Care Arrangements script.

Contents

Principal carer determination in shared care arrangements

'With child' rate of benefit for non-principal carers with shared care

Related links

Mutual obligation requirements for principal carers

Assessment of dependent children, additional income free area and child
income under social security law

Child enters customer's care/custody

Child leave customer care/custody

Customer advises a change to their level of care of a child

Customer advises care arrangements for Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Eligibility for Parenting Payment (PP)

Family Relationship Centres and the Family Relationship Advice Line

Parenting Payment Single (PPS) income and assets tests

Payment rates and thresholds

Principal carer of a dependent child

Shared care for Carer Allowance (CA)

Transfer to JobSeeker Payment (JSP) from another payment

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
