
What to check when Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rate has changed 007-07060060

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

Services Australia Website

Payments for families

Centrelink online accounts

Payment rates for Family Tax Benefit Part A

Separated parents

Publications

FPR006 - Family Assistance Payment Rates

Intranet links

Level 2 Policy Helpdesk

mySupport

P24845 problem and workaround

The P24845 system issue may impact in the following scenarios:

-   Where a step parent is claiming Family Tax Benefit (FTB) that has
    been transferred to them from a biological parent, and the other
    biological parent also becomes entitled to receive FTB for example,
    their percentage of care increases to above 35%, and they make a
    claim
-   Where the biological parent transfers their FTB to a step parent and
    they later separate. Care details for the child will not be
    transferred correctly to Child Support if a past period care refresh
    is requested
-   The care may transfer to the step parent's child support record
    (with incorrect child relationship details) causing inaccurate child
    support assessments and impacting multiple parties

As a result, where FTB is transferred out to partner ('TOP' is coded on
the Child Override/Claim (CHOC) screen - from parent to step parent) and
the customer is a Centrelink and Child Support mutual customer, these
records are to be referred for investigation. See the Process page of
Notification and assessment of shared care arrangements for Family Tax
Benefit (FTB) for further information and details of workaround and
example texts for DOA DOCs.

PM67006 problem and workaround

When a death action is coded on a Centrelink customer record for a
linked child support payer, the Entitlement Maintenance Group on the
child support payee's Family Tax Benefit (FTB) record should
automatically update to reflect that the payer is deceased. This will
exempt the payee from the Maintenance Action Test due to reason 'Liable
Parent Deceased' (LPD) and will stop any maintenance income from that
payer being assessed against the payee's FTB.

A problem has been identified where this process is not automatically
occurring. As a result, customers are incorrectly failing the
Maintenance Action Test (MAT) and maintenance income (child support) is
incorrectly continuing to be taken into account in the FTB A rate
calculation.

Pending resolution of this issue, where an FTB customer (payee) or
another third party advises that the payer is deceased, a manual process
is required. See Item 4 of the Process page in Action required when
Family Tax Benefit (FTB) customer no longer entitled to child support
for more information.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
