
Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to estimated income 007-11090010

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to determine why a Family Tax Benefit (FTB)
reconciliation overpayment occurred, once it has been identified that
the overpayment was due to a difference between actual adjusted taxable
income and the estimated income provided by the customer.

Changes in circumstances

Any income changes throughout the relevant financial year could cause an
overpayment if the actual adjusted taxable income as assessed by the
Australian Taxation Office (ATO) is more than the income estimate that
was used to assess Family Tax Benefit (FTB) for the relevant financial
year.

Changes in relationship status or child support payments can also result
in changes in income and therefore could result in an overpayment in the
same way.

Part A supplement, Part B supplement and Single Income Family Supplement
(SIFS) entitlement, if eligible, are included in the reconciliation
calculation once adequate income/ not required to lodge information is
available. For Part B supplement information, see Family Tax Benefit
(FTB) Part B - rates with/without supplement (pa). FTB top-ups,
including supplement and SIFS, are automatically used for debt
offsetting.

Related links

Reconciliation of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Debt offsetting during family assistance reassessment, reconciliation
and claim processing

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child support issues

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
shared care

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
blended family percentage

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child income

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child leaving care

Recording not required to lodge advice and previous year income

Assessment of adjusted taxable income for family assistance and Paid
Parental Leave scheme payments

Recording return to work details and explaining eligibility for Family
Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B quarantine

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B quarantine and the reconciliation
process

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
