
Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to blended family percentage 007-11090040

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines why a Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation
overpayment occurred, once it has been identified that the overpayment
was partly or entirely due to a blended family assessment.

FTB overpayments due to blended family

Members of a blended family may choose for one person to claim FTB or
for each member of the couple to claim and receive a part of the
family's FTB entitlement. If the couple chooses for each to receive a
part of the FTB entitlement, they can nominate the percentage of the
family's total FTB rate each will receive.

An overpayment could occur if there was a period during the relevant
financial year where the nominated (agreed) percentage changed and the
previous percentage was paid for a period before the new percentage
used.

Part A and Part B supplements and Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS)
are included in the reconciliation calculation for eligible customers
once adequate income/not required to lodge details are available. FTB
top-ups, including supplement and SIFS entitlement, are automatically
used for debt offsetting.

Related links

Reconciliation of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Blended families and Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Debt offsetting during family assistance reassessment, reconciliation or
claim processing

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
estimated income

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child support issues

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
shared care

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child income

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child leaving care

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
Centrelink lump sum claim

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
