
What to check when Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rate has changed 007-07060060

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines what to check to explain why a customer's rate of
Family Tax Benefit (FTB) has changed.

Check DOCs

When trying to establish why a customer's fortnightly rate of FTB has
changed, there are many factors to consider. Service Officers should
first check for any DOCs that would indicate a change of details that
would change the rate of FTB. The customer's rate may have changed due
to automatic review processing or because of manual coding.

Check maintenance action and income

In some cases, it is not applicable for a customer to take action to
obtain child support. However, customers should be encouraged to take
action to obtain child support. It is every parent's responsibility to
provide financial support for their child/ren.

Service Officers should check the customer's record to confirm:

-   have they failed to take reasonable action to obtain child support
    for a child
-   details of action taken to obtain child support reflect their
    circumstances (check children have been grouped correctly). If they
    need to take action, advise the customer what they need to do and
    explain that their FTB rate can only be increased from the date they
    take action
-   there has not been a change in maintenance income
-   there has not been a mismatch of information preventing child
    support data being transferred from Child Support for the customer,
    for example, the customer advises they have applied for child
    support but the details are not showing on their record

When a child/case end is transferred by Child Support for a child
support collect customer on the Disbursement method, the system
retrospectively changes the case to Private Collect and applies the full
maintenance entitlement amount.

This retrospective change in assessment results in the customer having
their annualised maintenance income assessed under the Entitlement
method. In the majority of cases, this will result in a decrease in the
customer's ongoing rate of FTB Part A. This change in annualised
maintenance income can also invoke Mandatory Continuous Adjustment,
causing a further reduction to the customer's ongoing rate of FTB.

This is not caused by incorrectly entered/ended case data or a system
problem, but it can lead to an unintended and unexpected reduction to
the customer's ongoing rate. Instances must be reported to the Level 2
Policy Helpdesk for escalation to the Policy (Advice) Assessment Team
for a workaround to be considered. See the Resources page for a link to
the Level 2 Policy Helpdesk.

Check FTB Part A rate reduction

An FTB Part A rate reduction is applied to the maximum rate of FTB Part
A that can be paid for a child who does not meet immunisation or Healthy
Start for School (HSFS) requirements. HSFS reductions commence from 1
July 2019 on the relevant child’s fifth birthday

For more information, see

-   Immunisation requirements for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A from 1
    July 2018
-   Healthy Start for School (HSFS) requirements from 1 July 2018

Check income support entitlement

From 1 July 2018 income support customers who commence or are within an
employment income nil rate period and in receipt of FTB Part A will have
the FTB Part A income test applied. See Effect of income support
entitlement on Family Tax Benefit (FTB).

The Resources page contains links to the Services Australia Website,
publications, mySupport and to the Level 2 Policy Helpdesk. It also
contains information about a shared care system problem (P24845) that
occurs when a parent has transferred their FTB to their current partner
(step parent) and the system problem (PM67006) that occurs when a death
action is coded on a Centrelink record of a child support payer and that
information fails to ripple to the payee's FTB record.

Related links

Action required when Family Tax Benefit customer no longer entitled to
child support

Amending maintenance income details on the Override Maintenance Income
(MNOI) screen

Calculating Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (Method 1)

Calculating Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (Method 2)

Calculating Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B

Changing from Child Support collection to private collection: effect on
Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Child Support collection customer advises Centrelink of direct payments
from paying parent (non-agency payments)

Child Support collection customer wants to change assessment method:
effect on Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Child Support data has not loaded onto or is incorrectly affecting
customer's record

Child support Manual Follow-up (MFU) activities and automatic reviews

Customer advises care arrangements for Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Effect on Family Tax Benefit (FTB) where the customer elects to suspend
or end a child support assessment

Employment income nil rate period

Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Subsidy (CCS) and Paid Parental
Leave scheme customer/child going overseas

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) and child support for children born as a result
of a surrogacy arrangement or via artificial conception procedure
(including children of same-sex couples)

Healthy Start for School (HSFS) requirements from 1 July 2018

Immunisation requirements for Family Tax Benefits (FTB) Part A from 1
July 2018

Income tests for family assistance and Paid Parental Leave scheme
payments

Maintenance Action Test (MAT) codes

Maintenance Action Test (MAT) for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) customers

Mandatory continuous adjustment of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Mutual customer matching with Child Support

Ongoing contact and child support assessment for Family Tax Benefit
(FTB)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) claim options and payment choices

Rate explanation screens for family assistance and Paid Parental Leave
scheme payments

Rate of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Reconciliation of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Retrospective Child Support assessments and Family Tax Benefit

Transfer of information between Centrelink and Child Support

Viewing child eligibility details on the Assessment explanation (AX) and
Assessment Details (ASDT) screens

Where to find child support information on Centrelink systems

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
