
Checking and actioning a Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) report 008-06070010

-   Background
-   Process
-   Resources

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines what a Service Officer does when a JCA report is
submitted by the Assessor.

Submitted reports

JCA reports are completed by Services Australia Assessors using the
Department of Education, Skills and Employment system and are
electronically submitted to the Agency. Once the report is submitted,
Service Officers need to review and determine if it is to be accepted or
returned.

Information in the JCA report (depending on the referral reason) are
used to determine eligibility for income support, mutual obligation or
participation requirements and referrals to employment services.

The JCA report (depending on the referral reason) contains the
Assessor's recommendations about the customer's permanent disability or
medical conditions, impairment rating, work capacity, appropriate
interventions, recommended referrals to employment assistance programs,
risks of non-compliance ratings and Vulnerability Indicator categories.

Once a JCA report has been accepted, it is classified as a JCAR and
auto-attached to the customer’s electronic Medical Information File
Envelope (eMIFE).

If a JCA report is re-opened or returned and then re-submitted, the
previous versions of the JCA will be classified as a Job Capacity
Assessment Draft (JCAD) and attached to the eMIFE. Once the JCA report
has been accepted, the finalised version of the report will be
classified as JCAR.

Manually checking the report

Service Officers manually checking the report must review the content to
ensure it is complete, consistent and correct before the report can be
accepted.

Accepting a report where a DMA is required

For Disability Support Pension (DSP) new claims, where the customer is
assessed as medically eligible in a JCA report, a Disability Medical
Assessment (DMA) is needed before the claim can be granted.

To ensure claims are not granted prematurely, the system will prevent
Service Officers from accepting a JCA report if the report indicates the
customer is potentially medically eligible for DSP, and therefore a DMA
is required. In most cases, the system generates an automatic referral
for a DMA if the submitted JCA report recommends medical eligibility.

Note: if the Assessor recommends the customer is manifestly eligible, or
medically ineligible, for DSP, then a DMA is not required.

For information about the DMA referral process, see Assessing a new
claim for DSP after a JCA.

Assessor needs to update information in the report

If an Assessor needs to correct or update a JCA report, they can reopen
the report if it has not been finalised (status is still submitted).

If the information to be updated relates to medical information such as
work capacity ratings and impairment ratings, return the report at the
Assessor's request so they can update it.

Returning the report after a DMA referral has been made

Once a referral has been made for a DMA, the JCA report should not be
returned to the Assessor for amendment, nor should it be reopened by the
Assessor.

If the Assessor considers the report recommendation is incorrect and the
customer does not meet eligibility criteria, but a DMA referral has been
actioned,

-   escalate the matter via the DIS Portfolio Operations team mailbox,
    and
-   advise the Government-contracted Doctors (GCD) mailbox Contract
    Management Team

Returning the report after it has been accepted

If the Service Officer initially accepts a JCA report but later decides
it should not have been accepted due to an error and the report status
is still submitted, refer to a Service Support Officer. Only do this if
the change to impairment ratings or work capacity is likely to have an
impact on the customer’s eligibility for payment, mutual obligation or
participation requirements.

In some instances, the customer will need to be re-referred for a JCA,
generally as a file assessment, if the Service Officer initially accepts
a JCA report but later decides:

-   it should not have been accepted due to an error, and
-   the report status is finalised, and
-   it may affect determinations of impairment ratings or work capacity

Auto-referral to DMA

In most cases if the person is claiming DSP, and the JCA recommends a
potential grant, the system will auto-refer for a Disability Medical
Assessment (DMA) with a GCD. The JCA report cannot be accepted until the
DMA report has been submitted, otherwise the claim may be granted
prematurely.

Note: a referral to a DMA is not needed if the Assessor recommends the
customer is manifestly eligible for DSP.

Where an incorrect auto referral has been actioned, see Table 1, Step 2
in DMA Referrals

The Resources page contains a link to the JCA Report Acceptance Guide
examples, a list of Frequently Asked Questions, a link to email contact
information and contact details for GCD Contract Management Team, and a
link to the Service Support Officer (SSO) webform.

Related links

Job Capacity Assessment (JCA)

Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) reports

Understanding Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) reports

Overriding Medical Conditions and Work Capacity recommendations in a Job
Capacity Assessment (JCA) report

Using a Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) report to determine payment type

Assessing a job seeker's mutual obligation requirements based on
Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)/Job Capacity Assessment (JCA)
reports

Actioning automatic activities of a current Job Capacity Assessment
(JCA) referral

The Impairment Tables

Assessing Continuing Inability to Work (CITW)

Referring a Disability Support Pension (DSP) customer volunteering for
employment assistance for an Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)

Quarterly Participation Interviews for Partial Capacity to Work and
Temporary Reduced Work Capacity (0-7 or 8-14 hours per week) job seekers

Deferred referral to Employment Services Providers

The Health Professional Advisory Unit (HPAU)

Eligibility for Disability Support Pension (DSP)

Assessing independence for customers with a partial capacity to work

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
