
Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) and Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) appointments 008-06100010

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the appointment processes for Job Capacity
Assessments (JCA) and Employment Services Assessments (ESAt).

Referral process for JCA appointments

Service Officers can request a JCA following completion of a Medical
Assessment Team (MAT) recommendation, see Streaming a new claim for
Disability Support Pension (DSP). Service Officers use the JCA referral
required post MAT Fast Note or the Referral function in Process Direct
for DSP new claims.

All available medical evidence must be scanned before running the Fast
Note. The Fast Note will create a DOC which will be allocated to
Assessment Services via the workload management tool. See Job Capacity
Assessment (JCA) Referral for the referral process.

Requests for ESAt appointments

Services Australia or Employment Services Providers can request an ESAt
for a customer.

Service Officers can request an ESAt by using the ESAt appointment
required Fast Note.

See Request an Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) for the request
process.

Appointment and attendance requirements

Assessment Services will notify customers of their JCA or ESAt
appointment via the Electronic Messaging (EM) service.

Note: Assessors will try to call the customer and undertake a phone
assessment. If unsuccessful, the appointment may be completed as a file
assessment.

Disability Support Pension (DSP) customers under 35 years

Participation requirements for DSP customers were introduced on 1 July
2012. These requirements apply to customers under 35 years of age who
have an assessed as having a work capacity of 8 hours or more.

When requesting an ESAt for these customers, tell them that failure to
attend may result in their payment being suspended.

Voluntary ESAt customers

If the customer was referred for an ESAt on a voluntary basis, no action
is required if the customer fails to attend their appointment.

Rescheduling or cancelling JCA appointments

JCA appointments can only be rescheduled or cancelled by the relevant
Assessment Services team.

Service Officers cannot cancel these appointments. Service Officers can
contact the relevant Assessment Services team if an appointment is no
longer required.

Rescheduling or cancelling ESAt appointments

ESAt appointments:

-   are compulsory (unless they are a DSP volunteer) as they determine
    the customer's participation requirements
-   can only be rescheduled or cancelled by the relevant Assessment
    Services team and cannot be cancelled by Service Officers

Viewing the JCA letters online

[] Customers with a registered email address will receive letters
online. They will be able to view all JCA appointment letters using
online services. Customers will require active self-service registration
to view these letters.

The Resources page contains contact details for Assessment Services,
links to the Services Australia website and links to external websites.

Related links

Assessment Services

Referring a Disability Support Pension (DSP) customer volunteering for
employment assistance for an Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)

Suspension of payments (CLK)

Actioning automatic activities of a current Employment Services
Assessment (ESAt) referral

Actioning a pending Job Seeker Snapshot initiated Employment Services
Assessment (ESAt) activity

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
