-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how and when a Medicare levy exemption or
reduction letter is issued and how to reissue the letter when requested
by a customer.

Eligibility for Medicare levy exemption or reduction

Customers who are paid, or who were paid Age Pension (Blind), Disability
Support Pension (DSP) (Blind) and Sickness Allowance (SA) may be
eligible for a Medicare levy exemption or reduction. Services Australia
automatically sends a letter to eligible customers at the end of each
financial year to advise of possible eligibility.

Dependants and/or partners of eligible customers must qualify in their
own right to also be eligible for a Medicare levy exemption or
reduction.

Eligibility is determined under the Income Tax Assessment Act. Customers
must be directed to visit the Australian Tax Office (ATO) website if
they have any questions regarding the exemption or reduction.

Exemption letter

The Medicare levy exemption, income test free letter (PENMEDI) for Age
Pension (Blind) and Disability Support Pension (DSP) (Blind) and the
letter (NSSNOT) for Sickness Allowance (SA) is automatically sent to
identified customers at the end of each financial year. This informs
them they may be eligible for a Medicare levy exemption or reduction and
the period(s) for which they may be eligible. Letters are issued to the
estate of deceased customers.

A customer may request a copy of this letter by phone or in person. The
letter can be reissued with the details of the Medicare levy exemption
or reduction.

Customers will be advised to attach the letter to their tax return. This
assists the Australian Tax Office (ATO) to determine eligibility for the
exemption or reduction.

The Resources page contains contact details for the ATO.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
