
Assessing a claim for Carer Allowance (CA) using the combined assessment scores of two children 009-03040010

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information to assist Service Officers with the
coding of claims for Carer Allowance (CA) for a person caring for 2
children using the combined Disability Care Load Assessment
Determination (DCLAD) 2020.

On this Page:

CA and the combined assessment scores of two children

Assessment of CA is limited to combining the scores of a maximum of 2
children, unlike Carer Payment (CP) (child), which can use the combined
scores of up to 4 children.

A person may qualify for CA if they have 2 children in their care and
both children are disabled, but individually neither child reaches the
necessary rating on the DCLAD 2020 in their own right.

Generally, carers will apply for full CA for each child and if neither
qualifies in their own right and the carer does not receive CP which
qualifies them for CA (auto), the delegate will make a combined
assessment. The carer will qualify for CA if, when combined, the
disabilities of these children have a significant impact on the carer
and have been given a:

-   DCLAD 2020 Treating Health Professional (THP) score greater than 0
    for each child, and
-   a combined Care Needs Assessment (CNA) score of 85 or greater

CA and the Care Needs Assessment CNA

A CNA questionnaire can only contribute to the overall score if the
total score for that CNA questionnaire is 20 or more under the DCLAD.

A person who qualifies for CA on the combined assessment scores will be
paid as if they had only one CA (child). This means that the fortnightly
rate of CA will be the rate payable for one child.

A Disability Care Load Assessment Determination (DCLAD) 2020 must be
completed for each care receiver as part of the claim for CP and/or CA.

Related links

Eligibility for Carer Allowance (CA) (child) when a carer is claiming or
receiving CA only

Health Care Card (HCC) only Carer Allowance (CA) (child)

Ex-Carer Allowance (child) Health Care Card (EHC)

Annual Child Disability Assistance payment

Calculating the total Disability Care Load Assessment Determination
(DCLAD) (2020) score

Coding a claim for Carer Allowance (CA) where the care receiver is under
16

Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to Carer Payment (CP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
