
Assessing satisfactory progress for tertiary students for Austudy 010-04050070

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how Service Officers assess satisfactory progress
for Austudy tertiary students.

Satisfactory progress for Austudy

For Austudy purposes, undertaking qualifying study means that a student
must be making satisfactory progress in their course. Progress of
tertiary students is measured against the minimum amount of time it
would normally take a student to complete a course either full-time or
part-time (as appropriate). Study in courses at the same level are all
measured against the same allowable time.

A tertiary student is making satisfactory progress if the amount of time
spent in the course (together with the time spent in other courses at
the same level) does not exceed the allowable time for that course.

A determination of the student's progress can be made:

-   as of the day the student enrols (or re-enrols) in their course,
-   when the student's enrolment changes, or
-   on the first day of the next study period

If on this day, the total of the student's previous study (in the
current course and other courses at the same level) is less than or
equal to the time allowed for the current course, then the student is
making satisfactory progress. Payment can continue until the student
exceeds the allowable time for the course. If the student's previous
study exceeds the allowable time for the course, then the student is not
making satisfactory progress and is not qualified for Austudy.

Limits for length of study

There are limits placed on the amount of study a student may undertake
at tertiary level and remain eligible for payment of Austudy. These
limits apply regardless of whether or not the student received a payment
or allowance for previous study. This limitation is called 'allowable
time' and is related to the minimum (normal) time of the student's
current course.

Note: the satisfactory progress rules in this procedure are for Austudy
only and are significantly different from those for Youth Allowance
(YA).

Study completed in the last 10 years

For the purpose of Austudy, all study undertaken in the last 10 years
must be included in an allowable time assessment. Where the date a
course was completed falls within the last 10 years, but part of the
course was undertaken more than 10 years ago, the entire duration of the
course is included.

The 10 years is counted from the day the student enrols in their current
course, not their current year of study. Once an allowable time
assessment has been completed, it is not reassessed at a later date to
allow previous study to ‘drop off’ and produce a different outcome
regarding payability.

Unfavourable decisions

When making an unfavourable decision, speak to the customer:

-   explain the decision
-   give them a chance to provide more information, and
-   advise their review and appeal rights

Requesting academic transcripts

[] Students claiming Austudy can now attach academic transcripts within
the online claim and in some circumstances are required to do so to be
able to lodge their claim. The Process page contains more information
about conditions where students will have to provide academic
transcripts and when Service Officers should request them. When making
satisfactory progress assessments, Service Officers should review the
Claim Overview in Process Direct before requesting academic transcripts.
This is because the online claim collects information from students
about their previous study and staff can use this information for the
assessment.

The Resources page contains a link to the Services Australia website for
National Course Approvals sub-site, the Student Programme Resource Tool,
and issues relating to assessing satisfactory progress.

Related links

Determining minimum (normal) time for a course of study

Determining allowable time/reasonable time for a course of study

Disregarding previous study for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY Pensioner Education
Supplement, Austudy and Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Defining levels of tertiary study

Approved courses of study for Youth Allowance (YA), Austudy and
Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Assessing secondary students satisfactory progress for Austudy

Assessing satisfactory progress for Youth Allowance (YA) tertiary
students

Review of decision

Advising verbally of an unfavourable decision (CLK)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
