
Initial contact and identification of services for students and Australian Apprentices 010-01000000

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

-   Background
-   References

This document outlines how the Services Australia will assist customers
who require assistance when they are studying or training.

Government intent

When a customer contacts Services Australia seeking help to study or
train, they only need to present with knowledge of their circumstances.

The agency will assess the customer's circumstances so a package of
products and services best suited to helping the customer study or train
may be offered. Such services may include income support and referrals
to specialists.

Initial contact

The initial contact may be made through a service centre, Smart Centre,
an agent or representative of the agency.

The agency will ensure students and Australian Apprentices have access
to payments and services that:

-   are applicable to their needs
-   will assist them in completing their study or training
-   improves their access to the labour market

The agency also has a role in identifying young people at risk and
initiating referrals to appropriate services and programmes designed to
address their individual needs

Identifying the most beneficial payment

When a customer or third party initially contacts the agency seeking
assistance, Service Officers are required to identify the most
beneficial payment applicable to the customer's circumstances. See
Identifying the most beneficial payment for students or Australian
Apprentices in the Contents list.

Contents

Identifying the most beneficial payment for students or Australian
Apprentices

Closing dates for lodgement of student and Australian Apprentice claims

First Contact Concessions, Carers and Seniors (FCCCS) workflow

External Specialists/Services available to students and Australian
Apprentices

Related links

Initial contact with students, trainees or Australian Apprentices with a
disability, illness or injury

Issuing appropriate modules and additional forms for students and
Australian Apprentices

Unsupported under 16 year olds to be immediately referred to a Services
Australia social worker

Claiming ABSTUDY

Initial contact with customers claiming under the Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Initial contact with students or Australian Apprentices claiming Austudy

Claiming ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC) PES

Initial contact with students or Australian Apprentices claiming Youth
Allowance (YA)

ABSTUDY Claiming Tool process

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
