
Scanning documents in Medicare Compensation Recovery 011-15070020

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the policy and procedure for scanning
Compensation Recovery documents.

Document scanning policy

Sections 10 and 12 of the Electronic Transactions Act 1999 permits the
accepting, recording and retention of documents in a form other than
original, that is, electronic.

All Compensation Recovery standard forms are bar-coded for scanning
purposes. At the time of mail validation, the barcode can be blocked to
allow the document to be scanned under a different title.

All documents, forms and correspondence received by Compensation
Recovery must be scanned into the Compensation Case Management System
(CCMS). This allows operators to access the information without having
to retrieve a manual file.

Mail validated documents are assigned a scanning code. This code
determines the:

-   title of the document in CCMS
-   system action that is to be applied to the document

Documents are scanned into the folder of the corresponding Work
Identification Number (WIN) to trigger an action and create a history on
the record.

Scanning duplicate documents

Services Australia (the Agency) may occasionally receive duplicate
copies of original documentation that has already been scanned to file.
It is still necessary for these duplicate documents to be scanned, even
where both documents are identical.

This is because the duplicate documents may contain additional or
different information, including handwritten annotations.

Archiving scanned documents

Any scanned documents received via fax or hard copy mail are placed in
an archiving box, labelled with:

-   the date
-   serial number, and
-   scanner number

Any documents received via email will be electronically stored,
according to date of receipt, within the relevant year/month folder in
the HIC inbox. Once scanned, the printed copy of these electronic
documents will be securely destroyed.

Documents are stored for 70 days before being securely destroyed.

Documents scanned prior to January 2017 can be retrieved from the
contracted archive facility with authorisation from a Team Leader.

The Resources page contains a table of the scanning codes used to title
a document.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
