
Operational Statistics System (OSS) for simplified billing in Medicare 011-43060060

-   Background
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information on the Operational Statistics System
(OSS) for simplified billing in Medicare.

On this Page:

Overview of OSS

The OSS counts and reports claims processed. The following modifiers are
used in the OSS to display statistics for health fund or billing agent
claims:

-   SBA - simplified billing agent claim
-   PHR – private health fund claim

Claims entered using the manual data entry system are counted as
transmitted claims in this context. Following entry, they are treated
the same as any other claim.

OSS screen access

Access to OSS for simplified billing and health fund claims are
controlled by Residential Aged Care Facility (RACF).

Authorised staff can gain access to the system as follows:

logon to Customer Information Control System (CICS)

key the control line, comprising of:

-   transaction identifier
-   modifier
-   D/M
-   source code
-   date (ddmmcyy)

The Resources page contains control lines and explanations for OSS
system.

Recalling claims statistics by source office code

For the source office keyed in the control line, OSS displays
productivity and work on hand figures for all claims actioned by that
source office.

Control line examples:

simplified billing agent claims statistics for source office AJAP for a
day:

-   ONBI,SBA,D,AJAP,011209

health fund claim statistics for source office AJAP for a day:

-   ONBI,PHR,D,AJAP,011209

The Resources page contains work on hand processing statistics for
source offices.

Recalling source office codes claims statistics via back loading

For the source office specified on the control line, OSS displays
figures for all claims actioned by that source office that originated in
another source office. These figures are presented in the originating
source code columns.

Note: back loading figures are a different presentation of the Other
Location figures.

Control line examples:

simplified billing agent claims statistics for source office AJAP for a
day that originated from another source office:

-   ONBI,SBA,D, AJAP,011209,B

private health fund claim statistics for source office AJAP for a day
that originated from another source office:

-   ONBI,PHR,D,AJAP,011209,B

Recalling claims statistics by state

For the state specified on the control line, OSS displays productivity
and work on hand figures for all claims actioned by that state.

Control line examples:

simplified billing agent claims statistics for NSW for a day:

-   ONSI,SBA,D,A,011209

private health fund claim statistics for NSW for a day:

-   ONSI,PHR,D,A,011209

The Resources page contains descriptions on information displayed in the
work on hand processing screen fields when recalling claims by state.

Recalling claims statistics by region

For the region specified on the control line, OSS displays productivity
and work on hand figures for all claims actioned by that region.

Control line examples:

simplified billing agent claims statistics for NSW for a day:

-   ONRI,SBA,D,A,011209

private health fund claim statistics for NSW for a day:

-   ONRI,PHR,D,A,011209

The Resources page contains descriptions on information displayed in the
work on hand processing screen fields when recalling claims by region.

Recalling claims statistics by Service Officer

Claims processed in a specific source office are displayed for the
Service Officers that processed the work.

Control line examples:

simplified billing agent claims statistics for NSW for a day:

-   ONOI,SBA,D,A,011209

private health fund claim statistics for NSW for a day:

-   ONOI,PHR,D,A,011209

Note: these statistics do not differentiate between This Location and
Other Location.

The Resources page contains information on accessing the OSS.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
