
Mental health services for Veterans' Affairs Processing (VAP) 012-17020080

-   Background
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about mental health services for
Veterans' Affairs Processing (VAP).

On this Page:

Mental health items

Mental health providers who perform services out of rooms are able to
claim travel allowance. The C81 000 speciality code for item KM is not
applied to provider numbers as usually occurs. The mental health
provider speciality codes C01 639, C01 640, C01 426, C01 641 and C01 644
are assigned to the KM item within the item fee file.

Clinical psychologists

Clinical psychologists:

-   usually complete a minimum of 6 years full-time university training
-   are specialists in the assessment, diagnosis and treatment of
    psychological and mental health problems
-   usually develop expertise in specific areas, or practice in
    sub-specialisations of clinical psychology

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval)

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval) from Department of
Veterans' Affairs (DVA) is required:

-   for services provided in a public hospital or in a residential aged
    care facility (RACF) high care
-   after 8 sessions of trauma focussed therapy

Note: the time dependency has been set to 8 sessions in a lifetime. A
Case Review (US07) must be provided to DVA prior to seeking financial
authorisation for further treatment.

Clinical Psychology Prior Approval items require prior approval.

-   If prior approval is present pay the service with PI 3X
-   If prior approval is not present, reject the service with RSN code
    S279

Note: if the item is not covered by the current approval reject the
service with RSN code S283.

Report item US90

Used when allied health professionals send a report to the patient's GP
at the end of the treatment cycle.

The GP uses this report to review treatment progress, assess if they
require further clinical and other treatment options.

Report item US99

Used when DVA directly requests a service for example, when DVA requires
a second opinion concerning treatment for a veteran.

DVA will give financial authorisation and advise the fee at the time of
the request. The kilometre allowance is included in the fee and is not
to be claimed in addition to the fee.

If item US99 is claimed with kilometres (KM), then reject KM with RSN
code S238.

Clinical psychology items and description

The Resources page contains a list of Clinical psychology items and
descriptions.

Clinical Psychology services

Definition

Clinical psychologists help prevent, assess, diagnose and treat a wide
range of emotional and behavioural problems.

Treatment and prior approval type:

-   US

Entitlement

-   Gold card/ White card - Full entitlement

Items

-   Item range: US01-US08, US50-US51, US90 and US99

Rules

-   The Resources page contains a list of Clinical psychology business
    rules.

Psychologists

Psychologists study human behaviour during their undergraduate and
postgraduate studies before undertaking supervised experience and
gaining registration.

Many psychologists have postgraduate qualifications to specialise in
various aspects of psychology, including mental illness. They do not
have a medical degree.

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval)

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval) from Department of
Veterans' Affairs (DVA) is required:

for services provided in a:

-   public hospital
-   residential aged care facility (RACF) high care

after 8 sessions of trauma focussed therapy

Note: the time dependency has been set to 8 sessions in a lifetime. A
Case Review (US17) must be provided to DVA and prior financial
authorisation sought for any further treatment.

Psychology Prior Approval items require prior approval.

-   If prior approval is present pay the service with PI 3X
-   If prior approval is not present, reject the service with RSN code
    S279

Note: if the item is not covered by the current approval reject the
service with RSN code S283.

Report item US92

Used when allied health professionals send a report to the patient's GP
at the end of the treatment cycle.

The GP uses this report to review treatment progress, assess if they
require further clinical and other treatment options.

Report item US98

Used when DVA directly requests a service for example, when DVA requires
a second opinion concerning treatment for a veteran.

DVA will give financial authorisation and advise the fee at the time of
the request. The kilometre allowance is included in the fee and is not
to be claimed in addition to the fee.

If US98 is claimed with kilometres (KM) then reject KM with RSN code
S238.

Psychology items and description

The Resources page contains a list of psychology items and descriptions.

Psychology services

Definition

Psychologists help prevent, assess, diagnose and treat a wide range of
emotional and behavioural problems.

Treatment and prior approval type

-   US

Entitlement

-   Gold card/White card - Full entitlement

Items

-   Item range: US11-US18, US52-US53, US92,and US98

Rules

-   The Resources page contains a list of Psychology business rules

Neuropsychologists

A Neuropsychologist is a specialist psychologist, trained in
understanding how the brain works and how it affects behaviour, thinking
and personality.

A neuropsychological assessment involves a range of tasks designed to
test specific cognitive functions.

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval)

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval) from Department of
Veterans' Affairs (DVA) is required for services provided in a:

-   public hospital
-   residential aged care facility (RACF) high care
-   assessments longer than 4 hours

Neuropsychology Prior Approval items require prior approval.

If prior approval is not present pay the service with PI 3X.

If prior approval is not present, reject the service with RSN code S279.

Neuropsychology items and description

The Resources page contains a list of Neuropsychology items and
descriptions.

Neuropsychology service

These guidelines are issued by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)
and are used by Services Australia Service Officers for Veterans'
Affairs processing decisions.

Definition

Neuropsychologists assess the changes in thinking and behaviour that may
arise from any brain dysfunction.

Fee Type

-   Neuropsychology

Treatment Type and Prior Approval Type

-   CL

Entitlement

-   Gold card/White card - Full entitlement within Australia

Items

-   Item range: CL20, CL25, CL30 and CL90

Rules

-   The Resources page contains a list of Psychology business rules

Social workers (mental health)

Social workers in mental health:

-   promote recovery
-   restore individual, family, and community wellbeing
-   enhance development of each individual’s power and control over
    their lives

Restrictions

If US21-US27 or US97 restricts with SW01-SW99 then reject the item with
the lowest fee RSN code S159.

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval)

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval) from Department of
Veterans' Affairs (DVA) is required for services provided in a:

-   public hospital
-   residential aged care facility (RACF) high care

Social workers (mental health) Prior Approval items require prior
approval.

If prior approval present pay the service with PI 3X.

If prior approval is not present, reject the service with RSN code S279.

Report item US93

Used when allied health professionals send a report to the patient's GP
at the end of the treatment cycle.

The GP uses this report to review treatment progress, assess if they
require further clinical and other treatment options.

Report item US97

Used when DVA directly requests a service for example, when DVA requires
a second opinion concerning treatment for a veteran.

DVA will give financial authorisation and advise the fee at the time of
the request. The kilometre allowance is included in the fee and is not
to be claimed in addition to the fee.

If item US97 is claimed with kilometres (KM) then reject KM with RSN
code S238.

Social Workers (mental health) items and description

The Resources page contains a list of social worker (mental health)
items and descriptions.

Social Workers (mental health) service

These guidelines are issued by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)
and are used by Service Officers for Veterans' Affairs processing
decisions.

Definition

Social workers (mental health) help individuals with mental health
disorders to resolve associated psychosocial problems and improve their
quality of life.

Fee Type

-   Social Work (mental health)

Treatment Type and Prior Approval Type

-   US

Entitlement

-   Gold card/White card - Full Entitlement within Australia

Item

-   Item range: US21 – US27, US93 and US97

Rules

-   The Resources page contains a list of Social Workers (mental health)
    business rules

Occupational therapy (mental health)

Occupational Therapists with mental health qualifications specialise in
assessing how an individual's mental illness impacts on their ability to
function in their everyday occupations and roles.

Restrictions

If US31-US37, US91 or US96 restricts with OT01-OT99 then reject the item
with the lowest fee RSN code S159.

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval)

Prior financial authorisation (Prior Approval) from Department of
Veterans' Affairs (DVA) is required for services provided in a:

-   public hospital
-   residential aged care facility (RACF) high care

Occupational therapy (mental health) Prior Approval items require prior
approval

If prior approval present pay the service with PI 3X.

If prior approval is not present, reject the service with RSN code S279.

Report item US91

Used when allied health professionals send a report to the patient's GP
at the end of the treatment cycle.

The GP uses this report to review treatment progress, assess if they
require further clinical and other treatment options.

Report item US96

Used when DVA directly requests a service for example, when DVA requires
a second opinion concerning treatment for a veteran.

DVA will give financial authorisation and advise the fee at the time of
the request. The kilometre allowance is included in the fee and is not
to be claimed in addition to the fee.

If item US96 is claimed with kilometres (KM) then reject KM with RSN
code S238.

Occupational therapy (mental health) items and description

The Resources page contains a list of social worker (mental health)
items and descriptions.

Occupational therapy (mental health) service

These guidelines are issued by the Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)
and are used by Service Officers for Veterans' Affairs processing
decisions.

Definition

Occupational therapists (mental health) specialise in assessing how an
individual's mental illness impacts on their ability to function in
their everyday occupations and roles.

Fee Type

-   Occupational Therapy (mental health)

Treatment Type and Prior Approval Type

-   US

Entitlement

-   Gold card/White card - Full entitlement within Australia

Items

-   Item range: US31 – US37, US91 and US96

Rules

-   The Resources page contains a list of occupational therapy (mental
    health) business rules

The Resources page contains a lists of Clinical psychology items and
descriptions, Psychology, Neuropsychology, Social Worker (mental
health), Occupational therapy (mental health) items and descriptions and
Clinical psychology business rules, Psychology business rules,
Neuropsychology business rules, Social Worker (mental health) business
rules, and Occupational therapy (mental health) business rules, fact
sheets and links to external websites.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
