
Prescriptions and Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) 012-60020000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This page contains links to various forms used for prescribing
pharmaceutical benefits, a list of Excluded Medicinal Items and link to
the With Compliments slip for Active Ingredient Prescribing.

On this Page:

Computer prescription forms for all eligible prescribers

Computer prescription paper is not personalised and is used to prescribe
pharmaceutical benefits by all eligible prescribers – medical
practitioners, nurse practitioners, midwives, dentists and optometrists.
See also: PBS prescription stationery for prescribers for information
about when these forms are used and what information must be included on
them.

Do not share this attachment externally. See Freedom of Information -
Information Publication Scheme.

[]PB023 - computer prescription paper for all eligible prescribers

Medical practitioner prescription forms

The following attachments are forms that can be used by medical
practitioners to prescribe pharmaceutical benefits. See also: PBS
prescription stationery for prescribers for information about when these
forms are used and what information must be included on them.

Do not share these attachments externally. See Freedom of Information -
Information Publication Scheme.

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB021 - medical practitioner
standard prescription form

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB025 - medical practitioner
authority prescription form

Dental practitioner prescription form

The following attachment is the form used by Dental practitioners to
prescribe pharmaceutical benefits. See also: PBS prescription stationery
for prescribers for information about when these forms are used and what
information must be included on them.

Do not share this attachment externally. See Freedom of Information -
Information Publication Scheme.

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB027 - dental practitioner
standard prescription form

Optometrist prescription form

The following attachment is the form used by optometrists to prescribe
pharmaceutical benefits. See also: PBS prescription stationery for
prescribers for information about when these forms are used and what
information must be included on them.

Do not share this attachment externally. See Freedom of Information -
Information Publication Scheme.

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB029 - optometrist prescription
form

Nurse practitioners and midwives prescription forms

The following attachments are the forms used by nurse practitioners and
midwives to prescribe pharmaceutical benefits. See also: PBS
prescription stationery for prescribers for information about when these
forms are used and what information must be included on them.

Do not share these attachments externally. See Freedom of Information -
Information Publication Scheme.

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB035 - nurse practitioners and
midwives authority prescription form

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB037 - nurse practitioners and
midwives standard prescription form

Public hospital prescription forms

The following attachments are the forms used by public hospitals to
prescribe pharmaceutical benefits. See also: PBS prescription stationery
for prescribers for information about when these forms are used and what
information must be included on them.

Do not share these attachments externally. See Freedom of Information -
Information Publication Scheme.

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB039 - computer generated public
hospital prescription form

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB040 - landscape public hospital
prescription form

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB041 - portrait public hospital
prescription form

[]PB054 – non-reform public hospital authority prescription form for
prescribing highly specialised drugs and trastuzumab only

Prescriber bag supplies order form

The following attachment is the form to order prescriber bag supplies of
drugs for emergency treatment. The following forms are classified as
order forms and not prescriptions. See also: prescriber bag supplies
order books.

Do not share this attachment externally. See Freedom of Information -
Information Publication Scheme.

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release
Icons\32w\icon-hidden-attachment.png]PB052 - prescriber bag supplies
form for medical practitioners nurse practitioners and midwives

Rejection slip for Active Ingredient Prescribing

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png]Rejection
slip for Active Ingredient Prescribing

AIP requirements for common written prescriptions

This table outlines the AIP requirement for the most common written
prescriptions. For medications not listed below, escalate to
Pharmaceutical Advisors for further assistance.

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Medications     | AIP             | Brand           | Notes           |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Opioids         | Mandatory       | Optional        | Commission’s    |
|                 |                 |                 | recommendation  |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Alzheimer       | Mandatory       | Optional        | Commission’s    |
|                 |                 |                 | recommendation  |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Stimulants      | Mandatory       | Optional        | Commission’s    |
|                 |                 |                 | recommendation  |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Growth hormone  | Mandatory       | Mandatory       | PBS policy      |
| (CAR)           |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| General         | Optional        | Recommended     | Commission’s    |
| nutrients       |                 |                 | recommendation  |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

External websites

List of Excluded Medicinal Items (LEMI) - Australian Commission on
Safety and Quality in Health Care website

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
