
Trusts and companies - transitional gifting rule 043-04080020

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the transitional gifting rules which applied
where a customer had gifted assets to a trust or company on or before 31
December 2001.

On this Page:

Purpose of transitional gifting rules

The purpose of these transitional rules was to prevent double counting.
For example without the special transitional arrangements, a customer
who transferred assets to a trust in the five year period leading up to
1 January 2002 could be subject to the gift rules in relation to the
gift and, after 1 January 2002, could also be attributed with the assets
of the trust.

Gifting from 1 January 2002

The special rules resulted in a once only adjustment, effective on and
from 1 January 2002.

Note: a partnered couple are considered to be one unit. Where assets are
transferred between the members of a couple, the gifting rules do not
apply. If the couple separates, neither of the customer's deprivation
determination of 1 January 2002 was reassessed.

If a customer or a partnered couple had gifted assets to a trust or
company before 1 January 1997 there was no adjustment to the deprivation
provisions as the customer's or partnered couple's five year deprivation
period will cease on or before the new rules were implemented on 1
January 2002.

Gifting prior to 1 January 2002

If a customer or a partnered couple had gifted assets to a trust or
company between 1 January 1997 and 31 December 2001 there are three
possible effects on amounts held as deprived assets as at 1 January
2002:

-   If a customer or a partnered couple (either together or
    independently) had deprivation assessed and as a result of the new
    rules was attributed with 100% of the income and assets of the
    organisation, then that deprivation ceased to be assessed from 1
    January 2002
-   If a customer or a partnered couple (either together or
    independently) had deprivation assessed and as a result of the new
    rules was attributed with less than 100% of the income and assets of
    the organisation then that deprivation amount would be reduced by
    the percent amount of attribution from 1 January 2002 for the
    balance of the five year period
-   If a customer or a partnered couple (either together or
    independently) had deprivation assessed and as a result of these new
    rules was not attributed with the income and assets of the
    organisation then that deprivation period would continue for the
    balance of the five year period

The Resources page contains examples of the effect of the transitional
gifting rules.

Related links

Deprivation effects on Centrelink payments

Trusts and companies assessment

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
