
Assessing attribution income 043-04050010

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

For Complex Assessment Officer (CAO) use only

This document outlines the process for attributing the correct amount of
income to a customer when they are involved in a designated and
controlled private trust or company.

Attribution income

Attribution occurs if the controllers of the trust or company exercise
control over the assets and income of the entity. This control is
expressed as a percentage and can only be determined by a CAO.

Note: different rules apply to an approved Special Disability Trusts
(SDT). This procedure does not cover SDTs.

Attribution income is the assessment of the entity's assessable income
as the customer's income. The

amount is determined by the person's attribution income percentage
multiplied by the trust or company's assessable income. This
determination could involve attribution of income from multiple trusts
and companies.

There are two exceptions to this general rule:

Reasonable distributions paid to a genuine investor by a trust or
company are not attributed to the controller(s)

If a partnered couple are involved, there is an exception when a
controller makes a distribution or pays a dividend to their partner

-   If the total combined actual income distributions received by a
    partnered couple is equal to, or less than the combined attribution
    income, the amount of any distribution income belonging to a person
    is to be deducted from their partner's attribution income amount
-   If the total combined actual income distributions received by a
    partnered couple is greater than the combined attribution income,
    any amount by which attribution income exceeds actual distributions
    for a customer, can be deducted from that customer's attribution
    income

If a trust or company balance sheet includes equity in a related trust
or company, the income is only recorded against the trust or company
that owns the primary asset.

The income attribution amount for the trust or company is assessed after
examining the net taxable profit which will include any capital gains
and imputation credits or foreign income credits etc. that may not be
included in accounting profit. The profit and loss statement should be
examined to determine if the entity is using the accruals or cash basis
for accounting. Either method is acceptable but there must be a
consistent usage from year to year. The taxable income and profit and
loss statement can be used to identify any non-allowable expenses.

Attributable income is therefore based on:

-   net taxable profit less
-   non-assessable income plus
-   income attribution amount for inter related entities plus
-   non-allowable expenses

Annualising income

The 'annualised' income attribution amount needs to be determined for a
trust or company. If a profit and loss statement provided only
represents a 6 month period. To annualise it:

-   remove non allowable deductions
-   divide the resulting net income by the number of days the profit and
    loss represents
-   multiply by 365

Sometimes it is not appropriate to apply such a simple calculation. For
example, a business may be seasonal and derive most of its income in the
3 months over the winter period and the 3 month profit and loss
statement provided represents only the winter months. Alternatively, a
business may derive income from property development where income is
derived only when property is sold.

If an entity ceases trading, the current attribution income is set to
zero. In addition, for the controller and their partner, the previous
distribution income will be set to zero. However, for non-controllers
the previous distributions are still assessed for 12 months under
section 1073 of the Social Security Act 1991.

Adjusting the profit and loss statement

When determining the amount of the entity's income to attribute to
stakeholders, the net taxable profit is the starting point. Financial
investments held within an entity are not subject to deeming provisions,
instead actual income applies. Some expenses allowed for the purposes of
calculating the tax payable, may not be allowed when determining
entitlement to an income support payment.

Two methods of adjusting the profit and loss statement to calculate the
income attribution amount for the entity are:

-   make the adjustments on a copy of the profit and loss statement
-   adjust the net taxable income by subtracting items such as dividends
    and distributions from designated private trusts and companies and
    adding on items such as non-allowable deduction amounts

Business deductions (adjustments on a profit and loss statement or
allowable deductions) are covered in a separate procedure.

Excess superannuation paid on behalf of controllers

Effective from 16 March 2017, the amount of excess superannuation above
the superannuation guarantee levy paid on behalf of controllers
(including part controllers), is an allowable deduction for the entity.

If the controller is an income support payment customer, the amount
above the levy is employment income, to be assessed as explained in
Assessing salary sacrificing/salary packaging arrangements for
employment income.

Further non-allowable deduction provisions

For trusts and companies, some further non-allowable deduction
provisions may apply, such as:

-   excessive wages or salaries
-   excessive interest on loans

Working Credit or Work Bonus and employment income nil rate provisions

Working Credit, the Work Bonus and employment income nil rate provisions
cannot be used for attribution income as it is not employment income.

From 1 July 2019 Work Bonus may be applied to attribution and
distribution income received by a customer who is:

-   of Age Pension age and
-   in receipt of an income support payment other than PPS

Work Bonus will be applied only where the customer's role in the trust
or company involves personal exertion, (that is the customer's direct
involvement helps generate the income for the entity). This could
include such activities such as truck driving, book keeping or sales.

Work Bonus can be applied to distribution income prior to 1 July 2019
only if the distributions are considered to be paid in lieu of wages and
coded as employment income.

Allowable and non-allowable deductions

Under trusts and companies legislation some expenses claimed by private
trusts and private companies are not allowed and the profit and loss
statements have to be adjusted. See list in the Guide to Social Security
Law, 4.12.7.20, Allowable & Non-allowable deductions. See References for
a link.

Note: effective from 16 March 2017 salary sacrificing must be accepted
as an eligible business deduction when assessing attribution income.

Each business conducted within the trust or company needs to be assessed
separately and Centrelink cannot accept a consolidated profit and loss
statement of the trust or company. The guidelines are the same as those
for sole traders and partnerships. Businesses are not allowed to offset
the losses in one against the profit of another business within the
structure unless the activities of the businesses are necessarily
related.

Assessing capital gains for controllers

Section 1208 allows Centrelink to assess all capital gains as income
when determining an entity's income. The capital gain or loss assessed
is the total amount of the gain or loss, less any expenses relating to
that gain, without any discounting for inflation or any other amount
that is allowed under the Income Tax Assessment Act. For example 50%
discounting or prior year losses.

For controllers or part controllers, only the capital gain from normal
trading should be assessed. Examples of normal trading are the sale of
shares, managed investments and depreciable assets on a regular basis.
If the entity was in the business of buying and selling real estate, the
capital gains or losses would be assessed.

What should not be assessed as income for controllers or part
controllers, is the capital gain from an asset sale which is not part of
normal trading, for example capital gain from selling a shop or land on
which a business was conducted, or an entity motor vehicle that has been
depreciated over its working life.

A capital distribution, being the direct transfer of entity assets to a
person who is a controller, is not assessed as income.

Note: for controllers or part controllers only (and their
spouses/partners), Centrelink no longer assesses capital gains once they
cease involvement with an entity, the entity ceases trading permanently
or winds up.

Assessing capital gains for non-controllers

These capital gains are assessed under section 1073 of Social Security
Act 1991 (SSA) along with income distributions. Centrelink assesses all
of the capital gain without any discounting or any other amount allowed
by the Income Tax Assessment Act.

For non-controllers, Centrelink must assess the capital gain from normal
trading. Examples of normal trading are capital gains from the sale of
shares, managed investments and depreciable assets on a regular basis.
If the entity was in the business of buying and selling real estate, the
capital gains would be assessed.

In addition, what should also be assessed as income for non-controllers
is the capital gain from the sale of an asset that is not part of normal
trading. Examples of this would include capital gain from the sale of a
shop or land on which a business was conducted or an entity motor
vehicle that has been depreciated over its working life. Therefore, for
non-controllers all gross capital gains are assessed irrespective if the
gain is from a one off event.

A capital distribution, being the direct transfer of entity assets to a
person who is not a controller however, is not assessed as income under
section 1073 of the SSA.

Note: all these capital gains for non-controllers continue to be
assessed for 12 months, even if the entity ceases trading, winds up or
the non-controller is no longer involved with the entity.

Assessment of long term bonds within a private trust or private company

If an entity invests in a long term bond where there is no income
credited until the end of the period of the bond (usually 10 years),
Centrelink assesses no income until the income is credited. There is no
income assessed during the period of the bond.

Fraud Investigation Branch - Undeclared business structures

Note: the following information relates to reviews undertaken by the
Fraud Investigation Branch only.

Where a customer does not provide any of the requested documents to
enable an assessment of attributable income, and all other avenues to
obtain the information are exhausted, attributable income can be
determined by bank account deposits.

The Complex Assessment Officer must be satisfied the customer has a
controlling interest in the entity and the customer must have been given
the opportunity to voluntarily supply the requested documents. Before
raising any overpayment, the customer must have been contacted by the
investigator and advised what information the agency has in its
possession, and invited to provide any contrary information they have.

The Resources page contains a summary of how attribution and
distribution income is assessed for trusts and companies. There is also
an example of adjusting the profit and loss for excess superannuation
paid on behalf of controllers or associates. A calculator for interim
profit and loss is included.

Related links

Assessing and recording distribution income

Assessment of income and assets from trusts and companies

Attribution percentages

Business deductions

Companies

Control tests and attribution for trusts and companies

Indexing, recording and reviewing organisations

Recording attribution income

Special Disability Trust (SDT)

Trusts

Trusts and companies assessment for Centrelink payments

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
