
Home Equity Access Scheme cancellation, restorations and rejections 065-19060321

-   Background
-   Process
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document explains the cancellation, restoration and rejection of
loan payments under the Home Equity Access Scheme (the Scheme) payments.

Rejection of a Scheme application

A customer who has lodged a claim for loan payments may not be entitled
to payment because they do not meet the eligibility provisions for a
loan. In these circumstances, claims are to be rejected.

Home Equity Access Scheme claims are processed through Process Direct.
If a rejected claim needs to be reindexed (for example, as a result of a
formal review of decision), a Social Application (SOA) must be manually
created in Process Direct and any new data manually coded.

Rejection of advance payment requests

Customers can request up to 2 advance payments of the Scheme loan in a
26 fortnight period. The request may reject if the customer has:

-   received 2 advance payments in the preceding 26 fortnight period
-   already advanced the full amount available to them (50% of their
    maximum pension rate in the last 26 fortnight period), or
-   reached their Maximum Loan Amount (MLA)

Staff can withdraw an advance payment request at the customer’s request

See Advance payments for Home Equity Access Scheme loans for more
details.

Cancellation of loan payments

Cancellation represents a loss of eligibility to receive loan payments
under the Scheme. This can occur for a variety of reasons but often is
the result of a change in the customer's circumstances. The system will
automatically cancel the loan payments when the change of circumstance
is updated on the customer's record.

When a customer ceases to receive loan payments, they continue to remain
a participant of the Scheme until they repay the loan. The outstanding
loan balance continues to accrue interest, compounding fortnightly,
until the balance is repaid in full.

Where a cancellation is the result of a customer request or staff
determination, the cancellation reason may need to be manually recorded.

Requests for payment cancellation

Customers can request to stop their fortnightly loan payments:

-   via their myGov Centrelink online account, or
-   by completing the Home Equity Access Scheme variation form (SA497)

Staff can request cancellation action by a Complex Assessment Officer
(CAO), use the Fast Note > Complex Assessment > Request for CAO action >
Home Equity Access Scheme.

Interaction with qualifying payment

The Scheme loan payments are paid as a rate component of the person's
qualifying payment. If the qualifying payment is cancelled or suspended,
generally the loan payments will also stop, except where the payment
stopped for payability based reasons.

In these circumstances the benefit status of the qualifying payment is
automatically set to Current Zero Rate (CZR) for reason PLS (as
displayed on the Pension History Status (PNSH) screen as Home Equity
Access Scheme), to enable the loan payments to continue being paid. A
letter is sent to the customer to advise that the loan payments will
continue to be paid even though the pension has stopped.

If the qualifying payment stops for any other reason, the loan payments
automatically stop for reason ‘STS – No qualifying payment’. A
cancellation letter is sent to advise that loan payments have stopped.

Restoration of fortnightly loan payments

If a customer’s fortnightly loan payments have cancelled, manual
restoration is required to start payments. The exception is if loan
payments have cancelled for reason STS (no qualifying payment). When the
qualifying payment restores, the loan payments automatically starts.

A decision to start fortnightly the loan payments may occur at the
request of the customer, as a result of a change of circumstances, or a
favourable review of Service's Australia's decision to stop payment.
Before starting loan payments, it is important to establish the
customer's ongoing eligibility. If it has been more than 13 weeks since
an advance payment has been made or the fortnightly loan payments
stopped, the customer may be required to lodge evidence to enable
eligibility to be re-established. The customer may be asked to complete
the Home Equity Access Scheme review (SA498) form.

The determination of whether a new application is required is at the
discretion of the Home Equity Access Scheme National team based on the
customer’s individual circumstances.

Requests to start fortnightly payment

Customers can request their fortnightly payments to start:

-   via their myGov Centrelink online account.by selecting Manage
    payments > Home Equity Access Scheme summary > Start payments, or
-   lodge a Home Equity Access Scheme variation form (SA497)

Staff can request restoration action by a Complex Assessment Officer
(CAO) in the Home Equity Access Scheme National team, use the Fast
Note > Complex Assessment > Request for CAO action > Home Equity Access
Scheme.

Reason codes

Reason codes are used to record a decision to cancel loan payments, or
to reject a claim. Most reason codes are automatically determined by the
system based on the customer’s circumstances, however there are also
manual codes.

Where a cancellation or rejection determination has been made, the
applicable reason code is recorded or displayed in the Reject/Cease
Reason field on the HEAS Details (PLS) screen.

The Resources page contains a list of the cancellation and rejection
codes applicable to claims and advance payment requests.

Ceased Loan Indicator

If fortnightly loan payments have been cancelled, the Ceased Loan
Indicator on the HEAS Details (PLS) screen must be changed to ‘N’ from
the applicable Effect Date.

Delegation

The only staff with the delegation to reject, cancel or start the Scheme
loan payments are Complex Assessment Officers (CAO) in the Home Equity
Access Scheme National team.

The Resources page contains information about cancellation and rejection
reasons for the Home Equity Access Scheme.

Related links

Home Equity Access Scheme

Eligibility for the Home Equity Access Scheme

Advance payments for Home Equity Access Scheme loans

Assessing Home Equity Access Scheme applications

Home Equity Access Scheme reviews

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
