
Assessing Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) claims 065-06030000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about assessing Commonwealth Seniors
Health Card (CSHC) claims.

On this Page:

Claiming CSHC

Customers can start a CSHC claim [] online, over the phone or in
writing. They can claim at any time without visiting Services Australia.
See Claiming Commonwealth Seniors Health Card.

Eligibility for CSHC

To qualify for a CSHC, a customer must satisfy all the eligibility
criteria. See Eligibility for Commonwealth Seniors Health Card.

If any eligibility criteria is are not met, then claim must be rejected.
There is no requirement to verify details that will not change the
outcome of the assessment.

Reviewing claim information

Service Officers must stream claims on the day they are received or
allocated via Workload Management.

A progress of claim note must be created and/or updated, if the claim
cannot be immediately finalised. Claims are to be checked to ensure the
information required to allow the assessment to be completed, has been
collected.

CSHC claim documentation requirements

If documentation is required, this is displayed at Next Steps within the
online claim.

Documents required for customers submitting paper claims will be
identified from checklist of SA296, SA296A or identified documents of
SA443. See Documents required for Centrelink new claims for more
information.

When customers provide documents in person to support their claim,
accept and scan documents as required. Customers can supply further
information or documents for their claim via Upload documents service.

Verification of Income for CSHC

All customers claiming CSHC must provide evidence of their income for
the relevant financial year plus evidence of any account based income
streams. For detailed information see:

-   Commonwealth Seniors Health Card income test and reference tax year
-   Lodgement of NOA and other evidence of income for Commonwealth
    Seniors Health Card

If a customer is not required to lodge a tax return, then they should
consider their potential entitlement to Age Pension. The customer may
not be eligible for Age Pension if they are excluded due to the assets
test or residential qualifications.

Care assessment for CSHC claims

Customers advising in the claim of a child entering care need to provide
a completed 'Details of your child’s care arrangement (FA012)' before
they can submit their online claim.

If the claim is processed in Process Direct, an Assessment of Care
Arrangements Referral work item will be generated and the assessment
must be completed before the claim can be finalised.

A Families Service Officer will complete the Assessment of Care for the
child.

After the Service Officer completes the care assessment, Commonwealth
Seniors Health Card processing staff can assess and finalise the claim.

CSHC cancelled

Customers who have had their CSHC cancelled, it may be restored, require
a re-claim or [] a full new claim. See Claiming Commonwealth Seniors
Health Card (CSHC)

The Resources page contains links to the Commonwealth Seniors Health
Card page and Age Pension age rules on the Services Australia website.

Contents

Processing Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) claims

Tax File Number (TFN) for Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC)

Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) income test and reference tax
year

Lodgement of the Notice of Assessment (NOA) and other evidence of income
for Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC)

Rejecting a claim for Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC)

Related links

Eligibility for Commonwealth Seniors Health Card

Re-claim for a Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC)

Quarterly Supplement

Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC)

Non-income tested (NOI) Concession cards

Calculating the start day general rule

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) and income support payment new claim processing
interactions

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
