
Child Student/Income Circumstances (CHSI) screen 102-05050100

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the Child Student/Income Circumstances (CHSI)
screen, used to assess child eligibility and the rate payable for a
child for Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Benefit (CCB) and some
social security payments.

Information recording on CHSI screen

Information on the CHSI screen includes:

CCB School - The school child status for CCB is used to work out the
rate of CCB. A higher rate of CCB is payable for a child not attending
school. Note: Child Care Subsidy (CCS) replaced CCB from 2 July 2018

Student code and income over limit for FTB prior to 1 May 2014 -
Eligibility for FTB Part A for children aged:

-   5-19 years is subject to the child income limit if they are not a
    full-time student (this applies prior to 1 May 2014)
-   16-19 years is subject to study/training requirements

Student code - For 16-19 year old children to assess whether the child
is a dependent for the parent/guardians income support payment,
including the additional income free area for PPS

Income over limit SSA under and over 16 - To assess continuing
eligibility for parent/guardian’s income support payment

From May 2014, for all FTB children aged 16 and over, use the Child
Education Details workflow to record or update education details.

Health Care Card (HCC) and social security payment child income limits

An automatic Health Care Card (HCC) is issued to maximum rate FTB
customers only. Dependent children aged under 19 are listed on the card.

Social security child income limits are used to determine qualification
as a dependent child/ Parenting Payment (PP) child. It can also affect:

-   the rate of social security pension/benefit paid to a customer
    caring for the child, and
-   the customer's additional income free area for single customers paid
    Parenting Payment Single (PPS) or paid under the pension
    Transitional Rate Income Test

The References page contains links to relevant definitions, current
rates and income limits.

The Resources page contains a link to approved educational institutions
and courses, and links to online information and online accounts where
customers can update child schooling details, complete FTB child reviews
and access rate estimator options.

Related links

Family assistance and Paid Parental Leave scheme options online

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) child income

Study requirements for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) children aged 16 years
or over

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) for children aged 16-19 years

Assessment of dependent children, additional income free area and child
income under social security law

Assessing Child Care Benefit (CCB) claims for approved care and
registered care

Dependents listed on a customer’s concession card

Income Test for single pension customers

Transitional rules for pension customers who were on payment at 19
September 2009

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
