-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the circumstances for cancellation of Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES) and ABSTUDY PES payments.

Cancellation circumstances

A student may have their PES or ABSTUDY PES payments cancelled if:

-   they have had a change in their circumstances
-   they fail to comply with the requirements for payment
-   another type of payment is more beneficial, or
-   they voluntarily cease payment

Payments can be cancelled either automatically or manually.

Automatic cancellation

Automatic cancellation of PES or ABSTUDY PES occurs following
reassessments that result in no continuing qualification to PES, ABSTUDY
PES or their qualifying payment, or if the student is no longer
undertaking approved study.

ABSTUDY PES will be cancelled automatically if the customer's qualifying
payment of Parenting Payment Single (PPS) has cancelled due to:

-   the customer's youngest child turning 8 years of age

In these cases, the customer will normally be automatically transferred
to:

-   JobSeeker Payment (JSP), or
-   Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker)

On transfer to one of these qualifying payments, the customer's
entitlement to ABSTUDY PES will be reassessed and the payment restored
if they are eligible. ABSTUDY PES will continue to be paid until the
customer has completed the course they commenced while in receipt of
their previous qualifying payment, under existing ABSTUDY progress rules
(reasonable time and limits of assistance).

Manual Cancellation

Manual cancellation is needed where the loss of qualification is not the
end result of a reassessment but the result of a decision to cancel PES
or ABSTUDY PES payments.

For example, a student has asked Services Australia to cancel PES or
ABSTUDY PES payments (despite still being eligible) or a Service Officer
has decided payments should be cancelled due to the student's failure to
reply to correspondence.

PES and ABSTUDY PES payments are cancelled temporarily for customers
transferring from a qualifying payment to Jobseeker Payment. A manual
cancellation is needed due to a system limitation and is followed by a
restoration, once the YA or JSP claim has been finalised.

See, Cancellation of, or changes to qualifying payment for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES or Assistance for Isolated
Children PES.

Language, Literacy and Numeracy Supplement (LLNS) and Skills for Education and Employment (SEE)

Customers, who wish to participate in Skills for Education and
Employment (SEE) and do not qualify for PES, may be eligible for the
Language, Literacy and Numeracy Supplement (LLNS) of $20.80 per
fortnight.

The supplement provides financial assistance for job seekers who want to
improve their English language, literacy or numeracy skills as part of
their plan to return to work. This assistance is to enable job seekers
undertaking SEE to meet the additional costs associated with attendance
and provides added incentives for them to participate in the program.

Related links

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and Assistance for
isolated children (AIC) PES cancellation, suspension and rejection codes

Coding new study details

Deferring or discontinuing study before end of course for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

Suspension of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and ABSTUDY PES

Restoration of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and ABSTUDY PES

ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) qualifications

Cancellation and debt raising of Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)
Scheme payments

Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and ABSTUDY PES qualifications

Cancellation of, or changes to qualifying payment for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES or Assistance for Isolated
Children PES

Language, Literacy and Numeracy Supplement (LLNS)

Small debt waivers

Payment of ABSTUDY when a student is deferring or discontinuing study
before the end of the course

Customer will not commence full-time study for Youth Allowance (YA),
Austudy and Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
