-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to determine if an ABSTUDY customer is
entitled to a different rate of payment, or remains eligible for ABSTUDY
when they leave the parental home.

Leaving the parental home

If an ABSTUDY student or Australian Apprentice leaves their parental
home, the reasons for their departure should be investigated as they may
need a reassessment of their rate of payment.

The departure of the ABSTUDY customer from the family home could also
affect the entitlements of other young people in the family unit.

Unreasonable to live at home (UTLAH) reasons

An ABSTUDY student or Australian Apprentice may be considered
independent and therefore not subject to the Parental Means Test if it
is unreasonable for them to live at the home of either or both parents
for any of the following reasons:

-   extreme family breakdown, or similar exceptional circumstances
-   living at home would cause a serious risk to the customer's mental
    or physical well-being due to family and domestic violence, sexual
    abuse or other similar unreasonable circumstances
-   parents are unable to provide them with a suitable home because of
    their own lack of stable accommodation

Away from home (AFH) rate and rent assistance criteria

An ABSTUDY student or Australian Apprentice may still be considered
dependent (and therefore still be subject to the Parental Means Test)
but be entitled to an away from home (AFH) rate if they are required to
live away from home to access full-time study, training or undertake an
Australian Apprenticeship (apprenticeship or traineeship).

Changes affecting eligibility for Rent Assistance should also be
investigated

An ABSTUDY student receiving Schooling A allowances (under 16 and
student is living at home) who changes care to another parent/guardian
may remain qualified for Schooling A Award. For Schooling A Award, the
parent/guardian is the applicant for the ABSTUDY payment and a new claim
may be required.

Related links

Independence for ABSTUDY customers

Rates and Thresholds

Away from home rate for ABSTUDY

Risk identification and management of threats to the safety or welfare
of a child

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
