
Parenting Payment Single (PPS) customer and/or child going overseas 102-11210000

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information which helps Service Officers decide
if Parenting Payment Single (PPS) is payable to the customer while they
or their Parenting Payment (PP) child are overseas and for how long. It
also explains the actions the Service Officer and the customer are to
take before the customerâ€™s departure. Use the portability script when
assessing a customer's departure from Australia.

Leaving to live in another country

PPS is cancelled from the date of departure if the customer is leaving
Australia to live in another country.

If the customer's child leaves Australia to live in another country,
they are no longer considered a dependent child and therefore the
customer is no longer the principal carer for that child under social
security law. If the customer has no other PP children, PPS is cancelled
from child's date of departure.

Temporary absence

PPS is portable for the maximum portability period of up to 6 weeks for
temporary absences, no matter what the reason for travel (for example,
holiday, visiting relatives) unless return rules apply.

Add-on payments may continue for a limited period if the customer
remains qualified and while PPS remains payable.

Overseas full-time study and Australian Defence Force Reserves

If the main purpose of a customer's travel outside Australia is to study
units of their full-time approved Australian course, their PPS may be
portable for the duration of the study as long as the customer stays
enrolled in their full-time course.

If the customer intends to have an overseas holiday before their
approved study, payments will stop when the total holiday period exceeds
their allowable portability period (this is usually 6 weeks however,
previous absences may affect this period).

A customer may be paid for an overseas holiday before studying overseas,
between overseas study periods or after an overseas study period if the
period paid PPS overseas (excluding the approved overseas study period)
has not or will not exceed 6 weeks.

The approved study period may include additional travel time to allow
them to prepare for the study and/or to finalise their affairs and
return to Australia.

PPS customers may also go outside Australia for any period if attending
an Australian Defence Force Reserves training camp. This would normally
be a short absence but can extend for as long as the training camp.

If a customer has advised their travel is for one of these purposes,
refer the case to Centrelink International Services (CIS) to assess
entitlement and code the departure.

If the customer is travelling for any other reason, service centre and
Smart Centre staff are responsible for the handling of the portability
interview and any departure coding.

Customer's dependent child leaving Australia

A dependent child can be born outside Australia or go outside Australia
temporarily and the customer can still be regarded as the principal
carer for that child if they remain overseas for up to 6 weeks, even if
the customer remains in Australia.

After a 6 week temporary absence, the customer will cease to be the
principal carer for the child, unless they are in the care of the
customer outside Australia and PP is still payable to the customer while
outside Australia.

If the customer returns to Australia without the child and the child has
already been outside Australia for more than 6 weeks, the customer
ceases to be the principal carer for that child from the date of the
customer's return.

If the customer has ceased to be the principal carer for a child due to
these provisions and returns to Australia for less than 6 weeks before
going outside Australia again, the customer will not be the principal
carer for that child for the entire period of the later absence. If
there are no other children for whom the customer remains the principal
carer, the customer's payment will cancel (reason NDE) on departure
because they have no dependents to qualify for payment.

If a child returns to Australia and the customer remains outside
Australia, the customer will continue to be the principal carer for that
child while the customer remains payable. If the child leaves Australia
again less than 6 weeks from return and re-joins the customer outside
Australia, the customer will continue to be the principal carer for that
child while the customer remains payable.

Payment restoration

If a PPS customer remains outside Australia after their payment has
stopped for a portability related reason, continuation of payment on
their return to Australia may be possible. Generally, their payment can
be automatically or manually restored if they return to Australia within
13 weeks of their payment stopping.

If PPS has stopped for a portability related reason and the customer
commences an approved overseas study period or an Australian Defence
Force Reserves training camp within 13 weeks of payment stopping, PPS
may be restored (with a gap in entitlement) from the study start date or
date training camp commences. Note: no arrears are payable for the
period between the end of the maximum entitlement period and the study
start date or the date training camp commences.

Customers travelling to an agreement country that covers PPS may be
entitled to transfer to payment under an agreement if their payment has
ceased for a portability reason.

If the customer is unable to return to Australia after the maximum
portability period, Centrelink International Services (CIS) has the
discretion to extend the period of portability under limited
circumstances.

Notification of intended departure and return

The Department of Home Affairs will generally advise Services Australia
when a customer leaves or returns to Australia. The system assesses
portability of the payment, regardless of whether the customer notified
or not.

Note: Home Affairs datalink activities should not be cancelled.

Services Australia uses the date of departure or arrival provided by
Home Affairs. If adversely affected, the customer can provide evidence
of alternative dates. The agency must consider applying the alternative
dates if it is reasonable and results in a beneficial outcome for the
customer.

In many cases, customers do not have to advise the agency they are
leaving Australia temporarily or have returned from a temporary absence.

However, there are situations where customers must advise of a departure
before leaving Australia or contact when they have returned to
Australia.

[] In most cases, customers can notify of their departure from Australia
via the Travelling outside of Australia service within their Centrelink
online account. If a customer's circumstances are more complex, the
system will prompt them to contact the agency.

The Services Australia website lists situations when customers must
advise they are leaving or returning to Australia. The Resources page
has a link.

Portability interview

Use the Portability Script - Departures and Returns to assess the
customer's entitlement to payment while they are outside Australia. If
the script is available, use it to code the absence from Australia. If
the customer's child is leaving Australia without the customer, the
script cannot be used.

Service centre and Smart Centre staff are responsible for handling the
portability interview and any departure coding where a customer clearly
does not satisfy an approved reason or where the departure is to leave
Australia to live in another country.

Portability period and mutual obligation requirements

A customer's portability period starts on the day they leave Australia.
For portability purposes, a customer is not considered to be inside
Australia for any part of the day they departed Australia, regardless of
the time of departure. If the customer is travelling outside Australia
on a cruise, the date of departure is the date the ship leaves the last
Australian port.

The day a customer returns to Australia is not included as part of their
absence as they are considered to be inside Australia on that day
(regardless of the time of return) and therefore no longer affected by
portability. If they leave and return on the same day, for example
airline crew, this is not considered a departure from Australia for
portability purposes.

If the customer has mutual obligation requirements they will be granted
a temporary exemption from their mutual obligation requirements for the
period they are payable overseas.

Defer any scheduled interview until the customer returns to Australia.

The Resources page contains scenarios, links to the Services Australia
website for information for customers about payments while outside
Australia and travelling with medicine, and links to Centrelink
International Services (CIS) contact details for staff and customers.

Related links

Actioning immigration datalink activities

Coding departures and returns for customers leaving Australia

Coding specialist portability assessments for Centrelink International
Services (CIS) staff

Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP) customer and/or child going overseas

Student studying outside Australia

Returning to Australia

Discretion to extend portability period

Changing details of a customer's travel to and/or from Australia

Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Subsidy (CCS) and Paid Parental
Leave scheme customer/child going overseas

Portability of payments paid under International Agreements

Portability of Add-ons

Pension Supplement overseas absences

Mutual obligation requirements for principal carers

Exempting a job seeker from their mutual obligation requirements when
going overseas

Exempting a job seeker from mutual obligation requirements due to
special circumstances

Recording and correcting employment income details

View/update overseas travel online

Coding CRES, ARD and RSS screen

Coding and viewing the RSCD, TOAD and TOAS portability screens

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
