
Youth Allowance (YA) job seekers returning to part-time study 102-07010030

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the effect of part-time study on the payment of a
customer receiving Youth Allowance (YA).

Approved activities for YA job seekers

YA job seekers who are not Early School Leavers and are studying
part-time will need to combine part-time study with training, other
approved activities or job search to meet their mutual obligation
requirements.

A new Job Plan will normally be negotiated with the Employment Services
Provider taking into account the customer’s study hours. The customer
will need to provide details of their part time study to their provider
who will determine any additional activities the job seeker will need to
undertake to meet their mutual obligation requirement.

YA job seekers may only be Centrelink managed job seekers if they fully
meet their mutual obligation requirements by undertaking an approved
activity and they meet the definition of Centrelink managed.

Principal carers

Principal carers undertaking part-time study may still have to other
activities, such as job search. That is, a principal carer can undertake
part-time study but depending on the hours of study may still be
required to look for suitable work of at least 15 hours a week.

Partial capacity to work

Mutual obligation requirements take into consideration partial capacity
to work that has been assessed as part of an Assessment Services, or
where the student is the principal carer of one or more dependent
children.

Early School Leavers

Youth Allowance customers who are Early School Leavers may be able to
meet mutual obligation requirements through study.

Assistance for Indigenous customers

If the activity is a part-time course, and the customer is Indigenous,
they may be eligible for assistance, e.g. Incidentals Allowance, under
the ABSTUDY scheme. If the customer is thinking about applying for
ABSTUDY for the part-time course, then the customer must be made aware
that the course cannot be included as a compulsory part of the Job Plan.
They must be given the option to not include it, as a customer is not
eligible for ABSTUDY assistance if the same course of study is a
compulsory part of the customer's Job Plan. They will, however, be
eligible to apply for ABSTUDY assistance if the course is only a
voluntary component.

Related links

Youth Allowance (job seeker) or Australian Apprentice (apprentice or
trainee) returning to full-time study

Mutual obligation requirements for Youth Allowance job seekers under 22
years of age who have not completed Year 12 or an equivalent level of
education (Certificate III or higher) qualification

Part-time or full-time study as an approved activity

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
