
Restoration of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) PES payments 102-10040200

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines restoring a customer or Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) PES applicant's entitlement to Pensioner Education
Supplement (PES). ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES.

On this Page:

PES, ABSTUDY PES and AIC PES payability

If the PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES qualifying income payment is
cancelled, the PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES will also stop, awaiting
further action. PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES cannot be restored unless
the customer or AIC PES student qualifying income support payment is
restored.

Restoration

When it becomes clear that a student has a continuing eligibility or
entitlement to payment of PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES and their PES,
ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES qualifying payment is current, their particular
PES payment may be restored.

Date of restoration

Care should be taken to restore PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES from the
Date Paid To plus one day (DPT+1) to ensure there is no loss of
entitlement. However, there may be cases where the date the customer's
record was cancelled (date of cancellation) is not the same as the
DPT+1, such as cases involving an overpayment. In these cases, the claim
should be re-granted (not restored) from the date of cancellation or the
date the customer or AIC PES applicant resumes eligibility for PES,
ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES, whichever is the later.

Processing

-   PES processing has been consolidated into Smart Centre Processing
    Services nationally. There is a PES Smart Centre Processing Service
    dealing with student claims. For details, see Processing Service
    details for: PES - Pensioner Education Supplement (DEEWR)
-   ABSTUDY PES is processed nationally by Smart Centre, for details,
    see Processing Service details for: ABSTUDY and ABSTUDY PES
-   AIC PES processing is processed nationally by Smart Centre, for
    details, see Processing Service details for: Assistance for Isolated
    Children (AIC)

Related Links

Suspension of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and
Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) PES payments

Cancellation of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and
Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) PES payments

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC) PES cancellation, suspension and rejection codes

Codes for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) cancellation,
suspension and rejection reasons

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
