
Correspondence returned to Centrelink 'Whereabouts unknown' 102-10030010

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to process correspondence returned to
Centrelink 'whereabouts unknown'.

Customer notification obligations

Customers must advise Services Australia of a change of address within
14 days of moving. When mail is returned from the address on the
customer's record, the customer may be considered 'whereabouts unknown'
(WUK).

Updating customer records

Returned mail is scanned to a customer record. In most cases, this
process triggers an automatic suspension of the customer’s payment, as
they are ‘whereabouts unknown (WUK)’.

The payment will not suspend if;

-   Customer is identified as vulnerable
-   Follow up action is needed on their record

A Work Item is created and processed by staff with this skill tag.

Payment of arrears

Staff must determine if the customer has remained qualified and retained
payability during the entire period of the suspension/cancellation,
before their payment may be restored with full arrears. Including when
the customer contacts more than 13 weeks after the decision to suspend
or cancel and the notice advising the customer of the decision has been
returned to the agency.

Note: this is because the customer would be taken not to have received
advice of the decision to suspend/cancel. The date of effect of the
favourable determination (restoration) is the date of the original
decision (date of suspension/cancellation), as per legislation. See the
References page for legislation.

Reviews of decisions related to returned correspondence

See Request for an explanation, quality check or review (CLK) for
requests for review of decision.

The Resources page contains a link to the Direct Referral to SSO
Webform, a work item and keyword information table and mandatory text
templates for Q999 or Q062 letters.

Related links

Aged Care Means Assessments

Cancellation of payments (CLK)

Changing address (CLK)

Changing address or rent details

Moving to an Area of Lower Employment Prospect (MALEP) employment
related exclusion period

Procedures for handling misdirected correspondence

Restoration of payments (CLK)

Suspension of payments (CLK)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
