
Parents moving in with ABSTUDY or Youth Allowance (YA) customer 102-03010140

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

This document outlines the assessment of the impact of a
parent(s)/guardian(s) moving in with an ABSTUDY or Youth Allowance (YA)
customer.

ABSTUDY or YA parents moving in

When the parent(s)/guardian(s) of an ABSTUDY or YA customer move in with
the customer, a reassessment must be completed. The parent/guardian's
principal home is the home in which they reside for the majority of the
time. Note: the parent/guardian's principal home does not change during
any temporary absence less than 12 months.

Therefore, when the parent(s)/guardian(s) move into the home in which
the ABSTUDY or YA customer resides, on a long term or permanent basis,
this home then becomes the parent/guardian's principal home.

Thus the ABSTUDY or YA customer is considered to be living with their
parent(s)/guardians(s) for the purposes of assessing the rate of ABSTUDY
or YA (that is, whether they will receive the 'at home' or 'away from
home' rate), Rent Assistance (RA) and whether the Parental Means Test
should be applied. In these situations, the effect of the
parent/guardian's change in address is the same as that which applies
when the customer moves back to the parental home.

Note: if 1 parent/guardian moves in with the customer and the customer's
home becomes that parent/guardian's principal home, the customer is
considered to be living with that parent/guardian.

Related links

Updating address details

Completing the Accommodation Details (AC) screen and assessing Rent
Assistance (RA)

Returning to the parental home when independent or qualified for the
away from home rate of Youth Allowance (YA)

Returning to the parental home when in receipt of the away from home
rate of ABSTUDY

Changes which may affect the Parental Income Test (PIT)

Assessment of dependent children, additional income free area and child
income under social security law

Reviews of independence for Youth Allowance

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
