
Cancellation of Austudy or Youth Allowance (YA) students and Australian Apprentices 102-10020050

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the cancellation of payments for Austudy and
Youth Allowance (YA) students.

Cancellation of Austudy or Youth Allowance (YA)

An Austudy or Youth Allowance (YA) student or Australian Apprentice
payment may be cancelled automatically by the system, online by the
customer or manually by a Service Officer:

Automatic cancellation occurs when the student loses entitlement in some
way, for example they are no longer studying and the student end date is
reached

Manual cancellation occurs when a:

-   Service Officer makes a decision to cancel a customer's payment
    based on the applicable social security law, such as applying for
    another payment, or
-   customer requests the cancellation over the phone or in person

Eligible customers can request cancellation using the Cancel my current
payment option online

Note: YA payments for students under 22 years of age will automatically
cancel when they reach their student end date if they have not booked a
student to job seeker participation interview appointment online using
the 'Confirm course end date' task. Customers who are sent a 'You need
to act now' course end date letter are required to book a participation
interview online before their student end date is reached. If they do
not respond to this letter by the recorded student end date, YA will
cancel from the day after the recorded student end date.

Customer has a nominee

Where the customer has a correspondence nominee, and has requested the
payment be cancelled, contact with the nominee is recommended before the
cancellation is made. If the nominee arrangement is involuntary, for
example a court appointed nominee, contact with the nominee is mandatory
and payment cancellation must not be made without the nominee's consent.

Customers with a nominee are unable to access the online service to
cancel their payment.

Australian Apprentice

If an Austudy student, YA student or job seeker customer commences a
full time Australian Apprenticeship, they may be able to continue to
receive Austudy or YA as an Australian Apprentice.

Employment income

Where a customer who is required to notify employment income, makes the
request to cancel their payment in person or by phone, without reporting
their current fortnightly income, the Service Officer should advise the
customer it is in their interest to report their income and take
advantage of any Student Income Bank credits they may have. If they do
not, they will not be paid any entitlement for the relevant pay period.

Parental income free area and the family pool

Changes to a dependent YA customer's circumstances that result in their
payment being cancelled may affect the parental income applied to
siblings who receive dependent ABSTUDY, Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC) or YA.

The Resources page contains examples of customers requesting
cancellation of payments.

Related links

Cancellation of JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Youth Allowance (YA) (job
seeker) at customer's request

Cancel my current payment online

Coding a cancellation

Cancellation of payments

Cancellation, Suspension and Restoration

Increase or decrease in parental income for Youth Allowance (YA),
ABSTUDY and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Personal Income Test and Income Bank for ABSTUDY, Austudy and Youth
Allowance (YA) students and Australian Apprentices

Commencing or returning to work for Austudy and Youth Allowance
(Students)

Advising verbally of an unfavourable decision

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
