
Lump Sum Bereavement Payment or Partner Bereavement Payment delivery 103-04010140

-   Background
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how a Lump Sum Bereavement Payment or Partner
Bereavement Payment is issued.

On this Page:

Lump Sum Bereavement Payment by group schedule

If the survivor is being paid by group schedule then the survivor's
entitlement to lump sum bereavement payment will be included in the
group schedule.

Deceased partner's payments by group schedule

A surviving partner is entitled to keep any instalments that have been
paid in the name of the deceased during the bereavement period,
regardless of how the payment was made - joint or individual bank
accounts, or inclusion in a group schedule. A letter explaining this is
automatically issued to the survivor.

If the deceased was being paid by group schedule and the survivor is
not, the institution will be expected to make the instalment(s) issued
in the bereavement period available to the survivor. Financial
institutions are protected from any legal action or claims by other
parties when the surviving partner is given access to the instalments
issued to the deceased during the bereavement period.

Accrued and unpaid pension, benefit or allowance

Any amount of a pension, benefit or allowance which has accrued and is
unpaid at the date of death, or which would have been payable if the
person had not died, may, upon application, be paid to the person who is
best entitled to receive it (for example, the executor of the estate,
solicitor or next-of-kin). It is preferable to pay any amounts owing to
the deceased to the executor, as this is the person that the deceased
has appointed to handle their affairs.

Partner Bereavement Payment

As Partner Bereavement Payment is only paid to JobSeeker Payment (JSP)
or Youth Allowance (YA) customers, it can only be paid by direct credit
to the customer or their payment nominee.

Related links

Death of a single pensioner

Group payment schedules and payments to institutions

Calculation of a Lump Sum Bereavement Payment (LBP)

Assessing entitlement to a Lump Sum Bereavement Payment (LBP)

Replacing direct credit, New Payments Platform (NPP or Real Time Gross
Settlement (RTGS) payments returned from a financial institution

Partner Bereavement Payment

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
