
BasicsCard replacement of card 103-01230110

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This is a Family and Domestic Violence Interaction Point. If the
customer is with another person, on speaker phone, or already identified
with family and domestic violence concerns, continue with the current
business conversation. Otherwise, go to the Family and domestic violence
procedure to conduct the risk identification and referral process.

This document outlines the procedure to replace a customer's BasicsCard.
The BasicsCard is used for income managed customers only, to help meet
their priority needs. This procedure provides information on how to
issue a replacement BasicsCard.

Replacement of BasicsCard

A replacement BasicsCard can be issued to a customer who has ceased
Income Management, subject to the card being issued within 60 days of
Income Management ceasing. A BasicsCard cannot be issued where it has
been more than 60 days since the customer has ceased Income Management.

A BasicsCard can be issued by Service Officers at Centrelink Service
Centres, Remote Service Centres and by Remote Servicing Teams (RST) with
Centrelink system connectivity and BasicsCard stocks in a face-to-face
interview with the customer.

Issuing a BasicsCard

When issuing a BasicsCard to an income managed customer or their payment
nominee, Service Officers are able to thermally print the cardholder's
name on the front of the BasicsCard where thermal printers are
available. If this is not available, Service Officers must ensure that
they write the cardholder's name on the back of the BasicsCard manually
in a fine point permanent marker pen. For details on issuing an initial
BasicsCard, see offer and issue of an initial BasicsCard.

The BasicsCard and Income Management

The BasicsCard is an allocation method for income managed funds to allow
customers to meet their and their family's priority needs.

All customers who are being income managed will be eligible to receive
the BasicsCard to access their income managed funds to purchase
essential goods and services.

The Resources page contains a link to BasicsCard balance check options,
links to Locator, and documents on Pebble setup and maintenance and
Ordinary maintenance.

Related links

BasicsCard

BasicsCard offer and issue of initial BasicsCard

BasicsCard customer reports a lost, stolen or damaged card

BasicsCard reactivate previously suspended card

Inventory Tracking System (ITS) for temporary Cashless Debit Cards and
BasicsCards

Managing income management funds

Determining a person's priority needs for Income Management

Family and domestic violence

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
