-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This procedure only applies to Centrelink International Services and
some ABSTUDY claims. For Centrelink payments and services use the
Identity Confirmation Dashboard in Process Direct, see Identity
Confirmation.

This document outlines how to correctly assess and code legacy POI
documents provided. This includes descriptors of names, address, etc.
Verifying POI is important in assessing a customer's eligibility to a
payment and service aligned to the Legacy POI tiered model. This
document is used for claims lodged from overseas, see Identity documents
A to Z for all other payments and services.

Legacy POI tier levels

From 2015 Payments and Services do not require the legacy tier model,
see Identity Confirmation

Prior to the current 2015 Identity confirmation model, the POI tier
levels were Zero, Tier One, Tier Two and Tier Three, see Coding the
legacy Proof of Identity (POI) screen.

Claims lodged from overseas require Legacy POI Tier 3 coding on the
Legacy POI screen.

Identity documents

Identity documents must be original and unaltered. Identity documents
can be accepted by post to Services Australia only if the customer
lodges the claim from overseas.

Service Officers must always assure themselves that the customer is who
they say they are. If in doubt, especially in relation to name or
address on the identity document provided, contact the issuing agency
and verify the details. If this is not possible, the document should not
be used.

Some documents require the same address in order to show the person's
use of identity in the community.

Coding Legacy POI document

Document details must be entered as they appear on the document, see
Coding the legacy Proof of Identity (POI) screen.

Legal name

Supporting evidence must be supplied if the customer’s name at birth,
maiden name or other legal name has never been coded as their previous
legal name.

If the customer has changed their name, see Changing the legal name of
customers or their children for more information.

Single names

If a customer indicates they are known by only 1 name, seek evidence
that they are known by that name in the wider community. It would be
expected that documents issued by other institutions and agencies would
also show the single name. In line with the Australian Standard, record
a single name in the surname field on a customer record, with the first
name field left blank.

When a customer indicates their child is legally known by only 1 name, a
system workaround is in place for coding a single name. So that the
child's name displays on written correspondence, record the single name
in both the family and first name fields on the Change Child (CCH)
screen in the child record.

The Process page contains document samples and coding information.

The Resources page contains FAQs, a POI points table, and links to
contact details, How to prove your identity with Centrelink on the
Services Australia website and external websites.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
