
Finalising embargoes - action for International Services (CIS) 107-04040020

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process for staff in International Services
(CIS) to finalise coding of embargoes and reconcile embargo schedules
that are sent by foreign pension authorities.

On this Page:

Recovery by embargo

Some agreements provide for one country to withhold amounts from any
lump sum arrears associated with the grant of pensions and send them to
the other country to recover a debt that arises because of the arrears
amount. This is referred to as an embargo. Information on outgoing
embargoes under the Agreement with New Zealand is contained in another
procedure. See New Zealand Agreement outgoing embargo - action for
International Services (CIS).

Embargo types

There are 2 types of embargoes.

For an indirect embargo country:

-   The foreign pension authorities send the notice of grant to CIS and
    request the amount of the Australian debt to be withheld from the
    arrears
-   CIS code the ongoing pension, calculate the arrears debt and send a
    request to the other country to withhold that amount from the
    arrears
-   The foreign pension authorities send the requested amount to CIS in
    an agreed schedule and send any remaining amounts to the customer

For a direct embargo country:

-   The foreign pension authorities send the notice of grant to CIS
-   CIS code the ongoing pension
-   The foreign pension authorities arrange to send the whole amount of
    the arrears to CIS in an agreed schedule
-   CIS then code and calculate the arrears debt
-   CIS recover the debt from the foreign pension arrears and send any
    remaining amount to the customer

Note: if the embargo action fails, CIS raise the arrears debt in
accordance with normal debt procedures.

Recording embargoes

Arrears debts and embargoes are managed in the Foreign Pension System
(FPS) with automated reviews to track the progress following the initial
coding of the grant of a foreign pension, see Foreign Pension System
(FPS) status and reviews.

Details of recovery of debts by embargo are coded on separate screens in
FPS rather than in the Debt Management and Information System (DMIS).
Embargo action generally requires the adjustment of DMIS activities.

Exchange rates and embargo

Exchange rates are used to convert foreign currency to Australian
dollars in assessing amounts included in the income test, see Foreign
currency and exchange rates. These are different from the exchange rates
used by other countries to convert foreign currency to Australian
dollars when sending embargo amounts to Australia.

This means that there is always a difference in the amount requested by
us and the amount received from the other country. Where the difference
is only due to these different exchange rate conversions, policy advice
is that the debt is considered fully repaid and no further action should
be taken. For this reason embargo coding generally requires the
adjustment of the calculated arrears debt amount to match the amount
actually received.

Reconciliation of embargoes

Foreign pension authorities send bulk amounts of all monies withheld
under embargo to us on an agreed cycle, usually each month. The Finance
Team in Zone Tasmania confirm receipt of the monies to CIS.

The foreign pension authorities also usually send a schedule with
details of individual amounts for all customers included in the payment
for that cycle. Once the schedule is received, CIS code the embargo on
the system and arrange to pay any excess amounts to the customer. CIS
then send lists of all action taken to the Finance Team who reconcile
the monies received.

Failed embargoes must be recorded and raised in DMIS in accordance with
normal debt procedures.

The Resources page contains links to the International Services homepage
and International Programme homepage. It also contains a link to
ESSentials Support Online for the procedure to pay excess amounts to
customers.

Related links

Comparable Foreign Payment (CFP) lump sum arrears debts

International Social Security Agreements

Foreign pension coding

Foreign pension claims

Foreign Pension System (FPS) status and reviews

Agreement liaisons, NZ CICs and exchange of information

New Zealand Agreement outgoing embargo - action for International
Services (CIS)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
