-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to update a customer's Centrelink record when
there has been a change of telephone details. It also covers how to
update the customer's record to pay Telephone Allowance (TAL) including
the higher rate of TAL for eligible home internet subscribers.

Telephone and internet details

TAL is payable to each telephone/internet subscriber who is eligible.
Depending on the rate of TAL they receive, TAL recipients are required
to tell Services Australia if they have a phone connected in their name,
or if their phone number or internet subscriber details change. Service
Officers are to check when updating contact details if a customer is a
subscriber and indicate this on the customer's record.

Generally telephone details and internet details where applicable,
including a customer's status as subscriber, are recorded when
processing a new claim. If a customer is a subscriber and their
telephone and internet details are recorded correctly, TAL is
automatically payable to eligible customers from the next TAL payment
date after the date of notification of subscriber status.

If the customer advises, TAL may be coded as a future date. If a
customer is no longer a subscriber, TAL is not payable from the date of
change in status.

Telephone details for Norfolk Island customers

Norfolk Island has its own Island/Country Code which is +6723. All
Norfolk Island telephone numbers are a five digit number:

-   all landlines start with 2#### for example 21234
-   all mobile telephones start with 5#### for example 51234

Where international calling is enabled the full number to be dialled
will be 0011–6723-(plus the 5 digit landline or mobile) for example
0011–6723-21234.

Higher rate of TAL payable

A higher rate of TAL is payable to Farm Household Allowance (FHA) and
Disability Support Pension (DSP) customers, (under 21 with no dependent
children), who are current home internet subscribers. To qualify for the
higher rate, customers must be eligible for basic TAL and have a home
internet connection recorded in their (or their partners) name.

Note: members of a couple may be eligible for different rates of TAL.

Self service

[] Tell customers they can complete the transaction using self service
(online, Express Plus Student App or phone self service).

If a customer who is not registered for self service contacts about a
change in their contact details offer the option to register to complete
the update unless:

-   self service channels are currently unavailable (confirmed by NNU,
    Newsflash and Bulletins), or
-   self service is not considered suitable

The Resources page contains a link to the Services Australia website.

Related links

Updating address, accommodation or contact details online

Accessing and using Centrelink self service

Centrelink letters online and Electronic Messaging

Telephone Allowance (TAL)

How to pay Telephone Allowance (TAL) arrears

Payment of Telephone Allowance (TAL) to customers suspended or cancelled
due to employment income

Rates and thresholds

Payment destination

Pension Supplement

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
