
Assessing lifetime income streams paid from Self Managed Superannuation Funds (SMSF) or Small APRA Superannuation Funds (SAF) 108-05060080

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to assess lifetime income streams paid from
Self-Managed Superannuation Funds (SMSF) or Small APRA Superannuation
Funds (SAF), which were formerly known as 'Do-It-Yourself funds' or
'Excluded Funds'.

Definition of a Self-Managed Superannuation Fund (SMSF)

Section 17A(1) of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993
defines a SMSF as a superannuation fund which meets all of the following
basic conditions:

-   has fewer than 7 members (from 1 July 2021, the maximum number of
    members for SMSFs and APRA funds increased from 4 to 6)
-   all members are trustees (or directors of the trustee company if a
    corporate trustee is present) and no other persons are trustees (or
    directors)
-   no member is an employee of another member, unless the members
    concerned are relatives
-   no trustee of the fund receives remuneration for their services as a
    trustee

There are four exceptions to these basic conditions:

-   where a SMSF has only one member
-   where a member is under a legal disability
-   where the member is a minor
-   where a member is deceased

The References page contains more information about these exceptions.

For classification as a SMSF under the superannuation legislation, a
fund must meet all of the above conditions. A customer receiving the
benefits from a SMSF must be a trustee of the fund. However,
reversionary beneficiaries of members need not be members of the fund.
The Australian Taxation Office (ATO) has supervised SMSFs since October
1999.

Definition of a Small APRA Superannuation Fund (SAF)

Superannuation funds with fewer than 7 members that do not meet the
conditions to be classed as a SMSF are SAFs. SAFs differ from SMSFs in
that they must have a corporate trustee that is approved by APRA. SAFs
are regulated by APRA.

Most Self - Managed Superannuation Funds (SMSF) and Small APRA
Superannuation Funds (SAFs) can be identified by their name. Often the
name of the SMSF will include the customer's family name. However, it is
not necessary that all SMSFs will have the customer's family name in the
fund name. The income stream schedule (SA330) would also assist in
identifying if the income stream is paid from a SMSF or a SAF.

Where a customer uses their member balance in the SMSF or SAF to
purchase an income stream, it is assessed under the income stream rules.

These funds may offer both asset-test exempt and asset-tested income
streams:

-   Any asset-test exempt income stream purchased before 20 September
    2004 will continue to receive a 100% assets test exemption
-   Income streams purchased from 20 September 2004 and before 20
    September 2007 which meet the characteristics for assets test
    exemption will be 50% asset-test exempt

Note: SMSFs and SAFs are not permitted under the Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Act 1993 to offer compliant lifetime income streams on or
after 1 January 2006.

All income streams purchased from 20 September 2007 are fully assets
tested. Exception: In a limited number of circumstances, certain ATE
lifetime income streams purchased prior to 1 January 2006 that are
commuted and rolled over into post 20 September 2007 ATE lifetime, life
expectancy or market-linked income streams will be allowed to retain a
100% or 50% asset test exemption (whichever is applicable), provided
certain conditions are satisfied, see note above. For more information
on the eligibility criteria and conditions for relief, see the
References page.

Lifetime income streams

Asset-test exempt (ATE) lifetime income streams must:

-   meet all of the characteristics of an ATE income stream including
    actuarial certification, and
-   meet the documentation requirements

Purchase price of an income stream paid from SMSFs or SAFs

The purchase price of a lifetime income stream paid from a SMSF or SAF
is amount of money from the memberâ€™s account that was used to commence
the income stream less any commutations. The purchase price of an
individual's income stream paid from the SMSF or SAF, will be drawn from
the member's beneficial interest in the fund. However, the whole
interest may not necessarily be used to purchase one income stream. It
is common for a member to have an ATE product and an account-based
product.

Defined Benefit Pension not a Defined Benefit Income Stream

A defined benefit income stream for Social Security purposes (section
9(1) of Social Security Act 1991) is an income stream where payments are
defined by factors like years of service, final salary or final average
salary over recent years, or by criteria determined by fund's governing
rules. Payments are not defined by amount of funds used to purchase the
income stream.

Pensions (except account-based and market-linked pensions) paid from
SMSFs and SAFs are classified as 'defined benefit pensions' under
section 228 of the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993.
However, they are not defined benefit income streams for the purposes of
the Social Security Act 1991.

Documentation required for assessment

A customer, or the trustee of the fund (often the same person), who
receives a lifetime income stream from an SMSF or SAF and wants
asset-test exempt (ATE) status for the income stream, must supply
documentation about the income stream to Services Australia to allow
assessment of whether the product meets the requirements of section 9A
of the Social Security Act 1991. Any deficiencies in the information
provided may lead to delays in assessment of the income stream.

The trust deed or governing rules must specify the exact terms and
conditions of the income stream, including required characteristics of
an ATE lifetime income stream. If not, a contract or other documentation
(trustee letter, trustee resolution or minutes or agreement) with a full
and accurate description of the benefits certified by the trustees of
the SMSF or SAF is required. Specifying the required characteristics in
any of the documentation will assist Services Australia to determine
whether the product complies with section 9A of the Social Security Act.
The required documentation provides details of the benefit provided by
the superannuation fund to the individual.

Requirements for actuarial certificates

SMSFs and SAFs paying an asset-test exempt lifetime income stream are
subject to an annual actuarial review. A customer will have to provide a
new actuarial certificate at the end of every 12 month 'in force' period
of the certificate. Note: there is a grace period of six months
following the expiry of the previous actuarial certificate during which
time a new certificate can be provided. The actuarial certificate must
be referred to a Complex Assessment Officer (CAO) to check if the
certificate expresses a 'high probability' opinion that the fund can
make the income stream payments specified in the trust deed or governing
rules. This is necessary for determining the ongoing asset test exempt
status of the product.

Assessing deprivation

Until 27 October 2011, all cases were referred to the Australian
Government Actuary (AGA) to assess asset test exempt (ATE) lifetime
income streams for deprivation. This is no longer necessary as
deprivation is assessed from commencement of the income stream and
cannot have occurred in the last five years. Deprivation occurred when
the purchase price of an ATE lifetime income stream was greater than the
present value of the future payments from the income stream. As the
present value was not readily identifiable, a valuation by AGA was
necessary. To determine if deprivation had occurred, Services Australia
compared the present value of the ATE income stream over its term or
life (as calculated by the AGA) with the purchase price. If deprivation
had occurred, normal deprivation procedures were applied, including
allowable disposal rules.

A deprivation assessment could only be conducted after a customer
purchased an ATE lifetime income stream. It could not be reviewed or
reassessed, as the assessment related to the purchase of the ATE income
stream, which could not be reversed.

Return of purchase price over the term of the income stream

The purchase price must be returned as income over the customer's life
expectancy for lifetime products. This is consistent with the
requirement that asset test exempt (ATE) products cannot have a Residual
Capital Value (RCV).

Until 27 October 2011, all cases were referred to the Australian
Government Actuary (AGA) to assess asset test exempt (ATE) lifetime
income streams for return of purchase price. The AGA included an
estimation of the dollar amount of the payments from the income stream
in their valuation report. This calculation provided evidence as to
whether or not the purchase price of the income stream would convert
wholly to income. Now, Complex Assessment Officers (CAOs) can undertake
an approximate calculation of the return of purchase price based on the
term of the income stream product multiplied by the gross annual income
amount of the income stream product. If the dollar amount is equal to or
higher than the purchase price of the product, the income stream meets
the return of purchase price requirement for an ATE income stream.

If the dollar amount is lower than the purchase price of the income
stream, the income stream product does not meet this requirement and
therefore, cannot be ATE. The product should be assessed as an
asset-tested income stream. Contact the Financial Industry and Network
Support (FINS) Helpdesk to check accuracy of the calculated figure and
before any reassessment.

The Resources page contains contact details for the Level 2 Policy
Helpdesk, where Financial Industry and Network Support (FINS) can be
contacted and a link to the online version of the Details of income
stream product form (SA330).

Related links

Assessing life expectancy income streams paid from Self - Managed
Superannuation Funds (SMSF) or Small APRA Superannuation Funds (SAFs)

Adding or updating an account-based income stream

Adding or updating a market-linked income stream

Adding or updating a lifetime income stream

Adding or updating a pooled lifetime income stream

Adding or updating a life expectancy income stream

Adding or updating a term income stream

Adding or updating a defined benefit income stream

Identifying and making suitable referrals to a Complex Assessment
Officer (CAO)

Income stream reviews

Debts arising from commutation of asset-test exempt income streams

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
