-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about allowable and non-allowable
commutations from an asset-test exempt (ATE) income stream and the
relevant coding. Commutation includes a lump sum withdrawal in cash or
directly transferring the proceeds (rollover) into another income
stream.

Description of asset-test exempt (ATE) income stream

Income streams that comply with requirements in sections 9A (lifetime
income stream), 9B (life expectancy income stream) or 9BA (market-linked
income stream) of the Social Security Act 1991 are ATE. All ATE income
streams purchased before 20 September 2004 receive a 100% asset-test
exemption. ATE income streams purchased on or after 20 September 2004
and before 20 September 2007 are 50% asset-test exempt. Income streams
purchased from 20 September 2007 are fully asset-tested.

Asset-test exempt (ATE) exceptions

The exceptions to this are:

-   defined benefit income streams, these continue to be 100% asset-test
    exempt irrespective of start date
-   in a limited number of circumstances, certain ATE income streams
    purchased before to 20 September 2007, that are commuted and rolled
    over into a post 20 September 2007 ATE income stream, are allowed to
    retain a 100% or 50% asset-test exemption (whichever is applicable),
    provided certain conditions are satisfied. The References page
    contains more information

Allowable commutation

There are limited circumstances where an ATE income stream product
(lifetime or life expectancy or market-linked income streams) may be
commuted, either fully or partially, without losing their asset-test
exemption and possibly incurring a debt:

Full commutation and rollover to another ATE income stream

Before 20 September 2007, a customer could at any time commute,
partially or fully, an ATE income stream and directly place the proceeds
of that commutation into another ATE income stream.

From 20 September 2007, any commutation/rollover is only allowed under
the conditions for retention of asset-test exemption. The original
income stream must be commuted in full and the entire commuted amount
(including reserves if income stream is from Self Managed Superannuation
Fund (SMSF)/ Small APRA Superannuation Funds (SAF)) rolled over to the
new income stream.

Note: if the original income stream is a 100% ATE income stream, the
commuted amount can only be rolled over to a lifetime or life expectancy
ATE income stream for retention of asset-test exemption. If the original
income stream is a market-linked income stream (MLI), the commuted
amount can only be rolled over to another MLI. The References page
contains more information.

To pay a superannuation contributions surcharge

Partial or full commutation is allowed to pay the superannuation
contributions surcharge of the customer, up to the maximum surcharge
payable.

Note: the income stream can be commuted partially or fully. Where the
income stream is commuted in full, any amount remaining after paying the
surcharge must be rolled over to a new ATE income stream.

Income stream split pursuant to a divorce property settlement

Partial or full commutation is allowed to split an income stream
pursuant to a divorce property settlement in accordance with a
superannuation agreement or a court order under the Family Law Act 1975
Part VIIIAA (income streams purchased as an annuity from a life office
or friendly society) or Part VIIIB (income streams purchased or acquired
from a superannuation fund). Where the income stream is fully commuted,
any amount remaining after actioning the split must be rolled over to a
new ATE income stream.

The Department of Social Services (DSS) undertakes all Means Tested
assessment of 'split' income stream payments. The Service Officer must
forward a copy of the supporting documents to the Level 2 Policy
Helpdesk.

To pay a Hardship amount

Partial or full commutation is allowed to pay a hardship amount as the
customer is facing extreme financial hardship or unavoidable
expenditure. Where the income stream is commuted in full to pay for the
hardship amount, any amount remaining after the payment must be rolled
over to a new ATE income stream. This only applied to income streams
purchased with non-superannuation monies, per Superannuation Industry
(Supervision) Regulations 1994. Services Australia will assess if the
customer meets the extreme financial hardship rules.

The customer must make an application to commute prior to commutation.
The Service Officer must forward a copy of the relevant forms and
supporting documents to the Level 2 Policy (Financial Industry and
Network Support (FINS)) Helpdesk for their recommendation as to whether
the customer's proposed commutation meets the definition of hardship
amount. The agencyâ€™s delegate must determine that a hardship amount may
be commuted from the income stream if they are satisfied:

-   the customer's circumstances are exceptional and could not
    reasonably be foreseen at the time the person purchased the income
    stream
-   the amount commuted is needed to meet unavoidable expenditure, and
-   the customer has insufficient liquid assets

For more information, see Application to be allowed to commute all or
part of an asset-test exempt income stream due to extreme financial
hardship

To pay an excess contributions tax amount

Partial or full commutation is allowed to pay the excess contributions
tax amount of the customer, up to the maximum tax payable. Where the
income stream is commuted in full to meet this payment, any amount
remaining after paying the tax must be rolled over to a new ATE income
stream.

By a reversionary beneficiary

Before 20 September 2004, if it is stated in the contract, a
reversionary beneficiary or the customer's estate may commute an ATE
lifetime income stream, if it is done within 10 years of the start of
the income stream. An ATE life expectancy or term income stream may be
commuted by a reversionary beneficiary (or their estate) or the
customer's estate.

On or after 20 September 2004, if it is stated in the contract, a
reversionary beneficiary or the customer's estate may commute an ATE
lifetime income stream, if it is done within 20 years or the primary
beneficiary's life expectancy at purchase, whichever period is shorter.
A life expectancy or market-linked income stream may be commuted on the
primary beneficiary's death if there is no reversionary partner, or only
on the reversionary partner's death, if there is a reversionary partner
who outlives the primary beneficiary.

Within six months of the commencement date of a non-commutation funded
income stream

A non-commutation funded income stream is an income stream that has not
been purchased with funds acquired from the commutation of another ATE
income stream.

Before 20 September 2007, a customer could commute an ATE income stream
to a lump sum during the first 6 months after purchasing it, provided it
was a non-commutation funded income stream. Note: from 20 September
2007, commutation within 6 months is no longer relevant as any new ATE
income stream will be a commutation funded income stream.

Commute the excess above the transfer balance caps, to comply with
taxation requirements

From 4 August 2022, commutations are allowed to the extent necessary in
order to comply with section 136-80 in Schedule 1 to the Taxation
Administration Act 1953 as per allowable reasons under S9B (2)(h)(ivc)
and S9BA (2) (f) (ivc).

The Transfer Balance Cap (TBC) is the maximum amount an individual may
transfer from accumulation phase to pension phase in their lifetime.
Where the transfer amount was larger than the TBC of $1,700,000 (as at
01 July 2021 and subject to indexation), additional tax was payable.
This change allows those customers to commute enough to bring them
within the TBC.

Non-allowable commutation

If a commutation is made from an ATE income stream that is not an
allowable commutation, the income stream will lose its ATE status. Treat
the income stream as an asset-tested income stream from its commencement
date and the customer may incur a debt resulting from a non-allowable
commutation.

Debt resulting from a non-allowable commutation

Treat a commutation of an asset-test exempt (ATE) income stream for a
non-allowable reason as a 'non-allowable commutation'. Where a customer
commutes contrary to section 9A(2)(h), 9B(2)(h) or 9BA(2)(f) of the
Social Security Act 1991 from an ATE income stream, they are in effect
demonstrating that their ATE income stream never met the requirements
for exemption under section 9A(2)(h), 9B(2)(h) or 9BA(2)(f).

This allows for a debt to be calculated for the amount the customer
received but would not have been entitled to if their income stream
product had been subject to the assets test. The debt would be assessed
over the period from when the asset-test exemption ceased (the date of
commutation) back to the most recent of the following 3 dates:

-   Five years before the date of lump sum commutation, or
-   The commencement day of the income stream. Note: where the current
    ATE income stream is the result of commuting one or more previous
    ATE income streams, the commencement day of the current ATE income
    stream will be considered to be the same as the commencement day of
    the first ATE income stream in the succession of ATE income streams,
    and not the commencement day of the most recent ATE income stream,
    or
-   20 September 2001

For more information on debts, see Raising subsection 1223A debts for
commutation of asset-test exempt income streams contrary to subsection
9A(2), 9B(2) or 9BA(2).

Partial allowable commutation

A partial allowable commutation will change the deduction amount and the
asset value:

-   for a non-account based product, the purchase price is reduced by
    the commutation amount to recalculate the new asset value
-   for an account based product, for example, market-linked income
    stream, the asset value after a commutation is the account balance
    after the funds have been withdrawn

A customer may report a change in the gross income amount after a
partial commutation during the financial year. However, in the case of a
market-linked income stream, the new gross income amount following a
partial commutation can never be less than the minimum amount required
to be drawn in the financial year. The minimum amount is based on:

-   the 1 July account balance and calculated at the start of the
    financial year, or
-   the opening account balance if the income stream starts during the
    financial year

If a customer specifies an annual income amount for the current
financial year that is below the minimum limit, Services Australia will
assess the minimum amount in accordance with section 1099AA of the
Social Security Act 1991.

Commutation of an original ATE income stream

This information relates to the commutation of an original ATE lifetime
or life expectancy income stream from a Self Managed Superannuation Fund
(SMSF), or Small APRA Superannuation Funds (SAF), and rollover to a new
ATE income stream on or after 20 September 2007.

If an ATE income stream is commuted, the assets can only be used to
purchase particular types of income streams in order to retain
asset-test exemption. The type will depend on the commencement date of
the original income stream. In addition, the conditions for retention of
asset-test exemption have to be met. The income stream has to be fully
commuted and all the assets including the reserves used to purchase the
new income stream for retention of asset-test exemption.

If the original ATE income stream was purchased:

before 20 September 2004 (100% ATE), the commuted assets:

-   can be used to purchase a lifetime or life expectancy ATE income
    stream from a retail provider
-   cannot be used to purchase an ATE market-linked income stream (MLI).
    A MLI is also known as a Term Allocated Pension (TAP). If done,
    treat the commutation as a non-allowable commutation. Assess the
    market-linked income stream as an asset-tested income stream. The
    original income stream is treated as if it was never ATE resulting
    in a debt being raised. Note: the permanent debt relief is available
    from 25 August 2011

between 20 September 2004 and 20 September 2007 (50% ATE), the commuted
assets may be used to purchase an ATE market-linked income stream (MLI)
from the SMSF or SAF. Alternatively, the commuted assets may be used to
purchase a lifetime or life expectancy or market-linked ATE income
stream directly from a retail provider

The Resources page contains links to the Details of income stream
product form (SA330) and the Level 2 Policy Help Desk - Enquiry page.

Related links

Commutation of asset-tested income streams

Application to be allowed to commute all or part of an asset-test exempt
income stream due to extreme financial hardship

Adding or updating an allocated income stream

Adding or updating a market-linked income stream

Adding or updating a lifetime income stream

Adding or updating a life expectancy income stream

Adding or updating a term income stream

Adding or updating a defined benefit income stream

Assessing income streams paid from Self Managed Superannuation Funds
(SMSF) or Small APRA Superannuation Funds (SAFs)

Assessing lifetime income streams paid from Self Managed Superannuation
Funds (SMSF) or Small APRA Superannuation Funds (SAFs)

Assessing life expectancy income streams paid from Self Managed
Superannuation Funds (SMSF) or Small APRA Superannuation Funds (SAFs)

Debts arising from commutation of asset-test exempt income streams

Reviewing actuarial certificates for lifetime or life expectancy asset
test exempt income streams from Self Managed or Small APRA Super Funds

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
