-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to update previous financial year income
estimates for FTB, CCS or CCB for approved care.

All CCB/CCR references relate to financial years before 2018-19.

Revised previous financial year income

After the financial year once their actual income is known, customers
may provide a previous income year estimate to have their entitlement to
FTB, CCS and CCB reviewed as part of the reconciliation process.

A separate procedure applies for recording not required to lodge advice
and previous year income.

Updating the customer's adjusted taxable income (ATI) estimate will
trigger reconciliation of FTB/ CCB if all required information is
available.

Note: income changes completed for FTB may also result in changes to
Child Care Subsidy (CCS) entitlement.

Actual income transferred from the ATO

If actual Adjusted Taxable Income (ATI) details have been transferred
from the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) for the relevant financial
year following lodgement of a tax return, these amounts will be used to
work out the customer's FTB, CCS and CCB rate rather than the estimated
amounts for those ATI components.

Partner contact for income estimate

A previous year income estimate can be accepted from the customer's
partner if they are a Person Permitted to Enquire (PPE) and could
reasonably be expected to provide a reasonable income.

Change of previous year income estimate

If a customer changes their previous year income after the end of the
lodgement year (or the extended lodgement year for claims for the
2011-12 financial year or earlier), the effect on the customer's family
assistance payments depends on whether the change in their estimate is
within time frames for an application for formal review of a decision.

Related links

Assessment of adjusted taxable income for family assistance and Paid
Parental Leave scheme payments

Helping families provide a reasonable annual income estimate for family
assistance payments

Recording not required to lodge advice and previous year income

Dates of effect for review of decision outcomes (CLK)

Updating income estimates for the current financial year

Reconciliation of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Non-lodger and late lodger process for Family Tax Benefit (FTB)
reconciliation

Reconciliation of Child Care Benefit (CCB) for approved care

Effect of income support entitlement on Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Person Permitted to Enquire (PPE) or Update (PPU) authority

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
