
Initiation and customer contact for Earned Income Interventions (Mail based) (EIIM) 110-13010050

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

For staff conducting Employment income Interventions - Mail (EIIM) only

This document outlines the process for the initiation and customer
contact for EIIMs, including Employment income Tip-off Interventions. It
also provides the process for determining employment circumstances,
action to take if the customer does not contact and determining the
scope of the intervention.

EIIM Interventions

EIIM interventions include the following triggers:

-   TDF: Tax File Number Declaration Forms are signed by employees on
    commencing with a new employer. The employer is required to send
    this form to the ATO. This information is then provided to
    Centrelink
-   DE: Customers registered with Workforce Australia gain employment,
    Workforce Australia advises the Department of Education, Skills and
    Employment. This information is then provided to Centrelink
-   EUD: The intent of the Earnings Under Declaration Intervention is to
    identify customers who are at risk of incorrectly declaring
    employment income. These customers are identified via internal data
    matching and profiling of data held by Centrelink
-   Public Denunciations (Tip-offs): Information is received from the
    public in relation to a customer's employment situation

Customer contact

A contact letter is sent to the customer requesting them to contact
Services Australia within 21 days on the provided phone number to
discuss their employment circumstances.

If the customer fails to respond to the contact letter, or fails to
supply verification after agreeing to do this, their payment may be
suspended and the employer contacted to obtain verification.

Customer conversation

When the customer contacts the agency, the Compliance Officer (CO) will
have a conversation with the customer in order to determine their
employment situation. If the customer fails to contact, the CO will
examine the customer's Centrelink record to ascertain their employment
circumstances.

The CO is then required to determine the scope of the intervention, if
the case requires Mandatory Verification or if the customer can supply a
verbal update to satisfy the requirements of the intervention.

Employment Income Pre 7 December 2020

Employment income paid in an entitlement period before 7 December 2020
must be assessed using the pre ‘Changing the Social Security Income
Assessment Model’ rules. Officers must ensure the correct DOV is used
when coding employment income for an entitlement period before 7
December 2020.

Related links

Verifying, assessing and finalising Employment income Interventions
(Mail based) (EIIM)

Coding the Contact screen in the Integrated Review System (IRS)

Adding a Manual Partner Intervention

Recovery Fee Workload Management for Compliance Interventions

Compliance intervention referral for Case Selection or escalation

Referral for Anomalies and Mismatches for Compliance Interventions

Authenticating a Centrelink customer

How customers create a myGov account and link services

Using myGov accounts

Guidelines for using interpreters

Booking an interpreter for an appointment

Identifying customer vulnerability and risk issues

Social workers role in Payments and Integrity

Family and Domestic Violence

Call and screen recording - information and access

Privacy concerns when calling customers, returning calls or leaving
messages on answering machines

Calling a customer or returning a customer’s call

Getting it Right (GIR) Minimum Standards

Online Document Recording (ODR)

Using the Integrated Review System (IRS)

Manually attributing a debt to a finalised Service Update or Review in
the Integrated Review System (IRS)

Attributing Other Review Outcomes in the Integrated Review System (IRS)

Recording and correcting employment income details

Earnings Apportionment Tool (EAT)

Circumstance Review Action script - Employment income Interventions

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
