-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information relating to conducting reviews of
independence for Youth Allowance (YA) customers where there are likely
to be changes in the customer's circumstances which could affect the
customer's independence.

Manual reviews

Where changes to a customer's independent status are likely, the Service
Officer must manually set up a review at grant.

Reviews of independence must be instigated by the Service Officer
whenever a YA customer changes their address. This is one of the
strongest indicators that a customer's rate could be affected by changes
such as independence status, at home or Away From Home (AFH) entitlement
provisions, and qualification for Rent Assistance (RA) and Remote Area
Allowance (RAA).

Income Management

Customers will automatically be identified for VWPR Income Management
(VWPR Auto Triggered Youth) if they are:

living in a location offering the Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients
(VWPR) measure, and

16 years of age or over and receive the independent rate of the
following due to meeting the Unreasonable to Live at Home (UTLAH)
criteria:

-   Youth Allowance (YA)
-   Disability Support Pension (DSP), or
-   ABSTUDY Living Allowance

For more information refer to Income Management for Vulnerable Welfare
Payment Recipients (VWPR).

Note: customers who are full time students or Australian Apprentices, or
who are currently on Voluntary Income Management (VIM), will not be
identified for Income Management under this measure.

The Resources page contains a table of the criteria for independence and
whether a review of independent status is required.

Related links

Independence for Youth Allowance (YA) customers

Assessing independence when a customer is self-supporting through
full-time paid employment

Assessing independence for full time or concessional study load students
from regional and remote areas under the self-supporting through
employment criterion

Unreasonable to live at home (UTLAH) initial contact for Youth Allowance
(YA), Disability Support Pension (DSP), Special Benefit (SpB) or
Tertiary Access Payment (TAP)

Completing Parent(s)/Guardian(s) details for the Base Tax Year and
Current Tax Year (MOD JY)

Income Management for Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VWPR)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
