
Electronic Data Exchange with Financial Institutions tool 111-21060000

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to access and use the Electronic Data
Exchange with Financial Institutions user interface to request
information from financial institutions.

Electronic Data Exchange

This interface allows a timely turnaround of information from financial
institutions.

Service Officers can send electronic requests for individual customers
to the Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) via the Financial
Institution Exchange (FIE) tool to obtain specific information about the
customer's financial holdings and then update their record. The FIE tool
is used to help Service Officers undertaking new claim processing and
payment review activities.

FIE tool

The Financial Institution Exchange (FIE) tool allows information to be
requested from financial institutions in a fast, secure way.

For Intelligence and Investigations Branch cases only, the information
requested and received from the financial institution is not placed on
the customer's record, instead it is placed on a restricted organisation
(ORG) record within the Centrelink system. Only users with the required
Security Access Management System (SAMS) resource and the correct ORG
Customer Reference Number (CRN) will be able to view the information
requested and received.

Types of information that can be requested

Information that can be requested from the financial institutions
includes:

-   account details (account number, name, BSB and current balance as at
    the time of request) other persons linked to the account (joint
    account holder)
-   a summary of transactions in the requested period (starting and
    ending balances for the period, and total deposits and withdrawals)
-   additional details provided on opening of account (for example,
    customer's date of birth and address), and
-   other accounts held by the customer (for example, transaction
    accounts, savings accounts and term deposits)

The Resources page contains FAQs on using the Financial Institutions
tool.

Related links

Cost effectiveness when recovering debts

Verification of information for Random Sample Surveys (RSS) reviews

Actioning a Service Update or Review in the Integrated Review System
(IRS)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
