
[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines when and how to issue a receipt number to a
customer.

Automatically generated receipts

When a Services Australia staff member goes into a customer's record, a
unique receipt number will automatically generate. This is the
customer's confirmation of contact made with the agency. It acknowledges
that the customer's record has been accessed and reduces the likelihood
of the customer calling back to confirm that updates have been made.

Since 10 March 2007, receipt numbers have 6 digits. Staff should give a
receipt number to the customer upon request, when the customer's record
is accessed.

In most cases, the receipt number generates at the start of the customer
interaction when the customer record is accessed. The Process page has
information on how to adjust this option.

For online services including Interactive Voice Response (IVR), the
receipt number generates at the end of the service.

Only one receipt number generates for each customer interaction. This
includes when the customer has a partner and/or children linked to their
record.

Accessing a customer's record

If a customer requests a receipt number but their record has not been
accessed, staff should explain that to issue the receipt number the
customer's record needs to be accessed and an authentication check will
be conducted. If the customer agrees, the record is accessed, the
customer is authenticated, a receipt number is issued, and a DOC is
created on the customer's record.

An example of when a receipt number does not have to be issued is when a
third party makes an enquiry regarding a customer's record. A receipt
number is not to be provided unless the person:

-   is a nominee
-   has implied consent to act on the customer's behalf
-   is making contact in relation to an intended claim on the customer's
    behalf

A receipt number only needs to be given to the third party when:

-   requested, and
-   the customer’s record has been accessed

Related links

Telephone standards

Disclosing information to a nominee

Accepting information from nominees

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
receipt numbers

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
