[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about the Archiving and Culling
Engine (ACE) which provides the facility to archive data from any source
system, hold it in an archive storage database, and retrieve the
archived data over the intranet.

Using ACE

The ACE application enables access to archived Short Message Service
(SMS) and email messages sent to customers, and to archived Education
Student Assistance System (ESAS) data.

The introduction of the ACE application to generate and archive receipt
numbers enables handling of the new format of receipt numbers,
regardless of the channel through which they were generated, including
Centrelink Call and Service Centres. ACE archives receipt numbers for
customer contacts after 56 days.

The Resources page contains Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and a link
to the Archive and Culling Engine (ACE) home page.

Contents

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
archived Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
archived Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
archived Education Student Assistance System (ESAS) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
archived Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
archived Parenting System (PGA) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
archived Residential Care Assistance (RCA) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
Australian Government Online Services Point (AGOSP) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to access
receipt numbers

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) application to send
activities retrieved on ACE back to the Centrelink System

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Activity
Management History (AMHS) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived
Assurance of Support (AoS) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Carer
Allowance (CDA) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived
Emergency Payment (EMG) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived letters

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Low
Income Health Care Card (LIC) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Mobility
Allowance (MOB) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Newstart
System (NSS) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Online
Document Recording (ODR) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Pension
System (PEN) data

Using the Archiving and Culling Engine (ACE) to access archived Report
Employment Income (REI) Interactive Voice Response (IVR) recordings

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
