-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process when a submission is lodged and/or
the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) requests additional
information from Child Support.

On this Page:

AAT submissions

A submission occurs when Child Support receive a request to provide
further information to the AAT, this information will assist them in
making an informed decision. The AAT may order a submission from Child
Support, or Child Support may make a submission to the AAT. Submissions
may be written and/or oral.

AAT require additional information

The AAT may require Child Support to provide information or documents
that are relevant to the review under s95G of the Child Support
(Registration and Collection) Act 1988.

The AAT may also request information or documents for a review of a
decision made by Centrelink, e.g. reviewing a decision relating to
pensions, benefits or allowances administered by Centrelink

Consider these requests in line with the Child Support Guide 6.3.3:
Secrecy provisions.

Roles and responsibilities

See the Background page in Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT)
applications against Child Support decisions for information about roles
and responsibilities.

Authorisations and delegations

See the Background page in Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT)
applications against Child Support decisions for information about
authorisations and delegations.

Related links

Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) applications against Child Support
decisions

Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) applications against Child Support
objection decisions

Extension of time (EOT) review lodged against Child Support objection
decisions

Management of files sent to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT)
(CS)

Processing Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) hearing details and
additional documents (CS)

Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) review dismissed or withdrawn (CS)

Processing an Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) decision (CS)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
