
Exceptions to the income date of effect rules in certain circumstances 277-17102600

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information relating to exceptions to the usual
date of effect rules for income replacement, for circumstances where
customers were prevented from providing income information on time. This
includes exceptions set out in Section 11 and exceptions relating to
Amended Tax Assessments.

On this Page:

Section 11

Sometimes a customer is unable to lodge their tax return on time or
provide information about their Adjusted Taxable Income (ATI) at the
time the child support assessment is made. Where a customer’s ATI is
determined after their tax return lodgement due date (whether upon
receipt of the customer’s ATO assessed income or a new provisional
income is calculated), it may be applied from the start of the child
support period where the:

-   new ATI is less than the income currently used in the assessment,
    and
-   the customer was not able to provide their income information at the
    time the assessment was made was due to prescribed circumstances set
    out in Section 11

There are 3 factors when considering whether a customer’s ATI should be
applied from an earlier date in the child support period under Section
11. The customer must have:

-   been affected by a prescribed circumstance at the time the
    assessment was made
-   been prevented from providing their income information at that time
    because of the prescribed circumstance, and
-   subsequently provided their income information within a reasonable
    timeframe in the circumstances

Section 11 is most commonly considered with regards to income tax
declarations (ITD), but it should be considered whenever a child support
assessment is amended to take account of new income information.

Amended Tax Assessments

Sometimes a customer’s tax assessment contains an error and they are not
able to obtain an amended tax assessment in a timely manner. Where a
customer’s tax assessment is amended to a higher figure, it will be
applied to the child support assessment retrospectively. Where a
customer’s tax assessment is amended to a lower figure after their tax
return lodgement due date, and more than 28 days from the date of their
previous tax assessment, it may be applied retrospectively where the new
ATI is less than the original or previously issued tax assessment, and

-   the customer did not seek the amended tax assessment earlier due to
    circumstances beyond their knowledge or control, or
-   special circumstances exist

If the lower amended income does not meet any of the above criteria, it
will be applied to the child support assessment from the date of
notification only.

The customer does not have to make an application for their
circumstances to be considered, but Services Australia must have enough
information to enable a decision to be made about whether the
requirements are met for one of the above exceptions.

Usually the customer should be the first point of contact to provide
information about their circumstances, however third party information
may also be used.

See Child Support Guide 2.4.4, Child Support Income and Lodgement rules
for income in Cuba for information about key tax return lodgement dates,
the effect of Australian Taxation Office (ATO) lodgement and the
consequences of non-lodgement.

Related links

Australian Taxation Office (ATO) income for Child Support customers

Cuba rules for Child Support customers

Deemed and default income for Child Support customers

Derived income for Child Support customers

Effect of income changes for Child Support customers

Income processing for Child Support customers

Income processing for incarcerated Child Support customers

Lodgement rules for income in Cuba

Notify Child Support customers of income changes

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
