-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about income processing for Child
Support customers from 1 July 2011 (22 November 2012 for WA ex-nuptial
cases). It details the different types of incomes that may be used in an
assessment and when to update a customer's income. Using the most up to
date income for customers is essential to ensure accurate assessments
and compliance.

Income types

There are a number of income types Child Support can use in an
assessment. Child Support must be satisfied the income used accurately
reflects a customer's actual income.

For income processing for the period 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2011 (21
November 2012 for WA ex-nuptial cases) see Income processing for Child
Support customers 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2011 (21 November 2012 for WA
ex-nuptial cases).

From the 1 July 2023, Return not Necessary (RNN) deemed incomes can be
used when the ATO has recorded a Return not Necessary indicator for a
parent for a financial year.

International parents

For details on the use of international incomes in child support
assessment, including how to obtain income information for customers
living overseas, see Income processing for Child Support customers
(International Parents).

The Resources page has links to examples, macros, websites and
templates.

Contents

Australian Taxation Office (ATO) income for Child Support customers

Cuba rules for Child Support customers

Deemed and default income for Child Support customers

Derived income for Child Support customers

Effect of income changes for Child Support customers

Income processing for incarcerated Child Support customers

Lodgement rules for incomes in Cuba

Notify Child Support customers of income changes

Exceptions to the income date of effect rules in certain circumstances

Income Cuba Process Help

Income Tax Declaration in Pluto

Income determination in Pluto

Related links

Change of assessment in special circumstances

Child Support Estimates - Reconcile (from 1 July 2011)

Child Support estimates

Child Support estimates review (Post 1 July 2010)

Child Support's information gathering powers

Contact with Child Support customers

Correcting errors on Child Support cases

Customer referral guidelines for Child Support staff

Direct requests for information from Department of Veterans Affairs'
(DVA)

Documenting Child Support information

Fixed annual rate not to apply applications

Incarcerated customers

Income processing for Child Support customers (International Parents)

Income processing for Child Support customers 1 July 2008 to 30 June
2011 (21 November 2012 for WA ex-nuptial cases)

Minimum Annual Rate to nil - Reducing Child Support assessments

Child support overpayments and other payee debt

Possible tax evasion by Child Support customers (individuals and
business)

Post Separation Income for Child Support customers

Taxable and non-taxable (tax exempt) payments for Centrelink Payment
Summary

Tax-free pensions and benefits for family assistance and Paid Parental
Leave scheme payments, and the Parental Income Test for Youth Allowance,
ABSTUDY and Assistance for Isolated Children

 

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
