
This document outlines the maximum rates of payment, additional
entitlements, add-on payments and income test and assets test
thresholds. Browse rates via tabs provide. An ‘A-Z’ of payments is
available from the front index page. The ‘About’ tab lists the key dates
that rates and thresholds are reassessed on and contains links to
Policy, Legislation, Factsheets and other related information.

A-Z

A-Z

A guide to Australian Government payments (CO029)

ABSTUDY - Additional Incidentals Allowance

ABSTUDY - Boarding School Scholarship Approval Threshold

ABSTUDY - Education Provider Administration and Audit costs

ABSTUDY - Energy Supplement with Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

ABSTUDY - Energy Supplement without Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

ABSTUDY - Incidentals Allowance

ABSTUDY - Living Allowance

ABSTUDY - Masters and Doctorate Allowance

ABSTUDY - Means tests

ABSTUDY - Parental Income Test

ABSTUDY - Partner Income Test

ABSTUDY - Personal Income Test

ABSTUDY - Relocation Allowance

ABSTUDY - Relocation Scholarship (RS)

ABSTUDY – Rent Assistance

ABSTUDY - School Fees Allowance Group 2 (Boarding)

ABSTUDY - Student Start-up Payments

ABSTUDY - Supplementary Allowances

ABSTUDY School term allowance - four instalments

Additional Boarding Allowance (ABA) - Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC)

Additional child amounts

Additional Incidentals Allowance - ABSTUDY

Adjusted Taxable Income Test Threshold – Carer Allowance (CA)

Advance - Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Advance rates - Pension

Allowance (Independent) - assets test

Allowance customer income limits - pension partner

Allowance income and assets tests

Allowance Supplement amount – JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance
(WA), Partner Allowance (PA), Sickness Allowance (SA): over Age Pension
age

Allowances - Maintenance income free area

Allowances - Personal Income Test thresholds

Allowances, limits and income tests - Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC)

Annual subsidy cap - Child Care Subsidy

Approved Care Organisations (ACO) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rates

Asset limits - Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth)

Assets free areas - Pension

Assets test - Allowance (Independent)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Additional Boarding Allowance
(ABA)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - allowances, limits and income
tests

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Basic Boarding Allowance (BA)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Distance Education Allowance
(DED)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Maintenance Income Test (MIT)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Parental Income Test (PIT)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Second Home Allowance (pa/pf)

Assurer income threshold

Austudy - Energy Supplement

Austudy - income test cut-offs

Austudy - Personal Income Test thresholds

Austudy - rates (incl. special rates and over Age Pension age)

Basic Boarding Allowance (BA) - Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Boarding School Scholarship Approval Threshold - ABSTUDY

Care Receiver Income and Asset Limits - Carer Payment (CP)

Carer Allowance (CA)

Carer Allowance (CA) – Adjusted Taxable Income Test Threshold

Carer Payment (CP) - Care Receiver Income and Asset Limits

Carer Supplement

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - income limits

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - income threshold

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - multiple child loading

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - rates (per hour/week)

Child Care fee assistance - JET Child Care fee assistance (JETCCFA)

Child Care Rebate (CCR)

Child Care Subsidy - income thresholds, annual subsidy cap and hourly
rate caps

Child Disability Assistance Payment (CDAP)

Child earning limits - permissible limits

Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) - Energy Supplement

Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) - taxable income limits

Coronavirus Supplement

Dad and Partner Pay (DAP) - rates

Deeming thresholds - Pension

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - asset limits

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - Energy Supplement

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - income limits

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - rates

Disqualifying assets limits - Pension

Disqualifying assets limits (Transitional) - Pension

Disqualifying income limits - Pension

Disqualifying income limits (Transitional) - Pension

Distance Education Allowance (DED) - Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC)

Double Orphan Pension (DOP) - basic rate

Education Entry Payment (EdEP)

Education Provider Administration and Audit costs - ABSTUDY

Energy Supplement - ABSTUDY with Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

Energy Supplement - ABSTUDY without Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

Energy Supplement - Austudy

Energy Supplement - Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC)

Energy Supplement - Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth)

Energy Supplement - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pf)

Energy Supplement – JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance (WA),
Partner Allowance (PA), Sickness Allowance (SA)

Energy Supplement - Parenting Payment (PP)

Energy Supplement - Pension Rates

Energy Supplement - Pension Transitional rates

Energy Supplement - Youth Allowance (YA) rates

Energy Supplement (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Energy Supplement (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B

Energy Supplement (pf) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B

Essential Medical Equipment Payment (EMEP)

Factsheets

Family Assistance - Annual Rent Assistance rates under the A New Tax
System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Family Assistance - Rent Assistance rates for payments under the A New
Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Family Assistance Payment Rates (FPR006)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) - Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Advance

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Energy Supplement (pf)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits above which only the
base rate of FTB Part A will be paid

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits FTB Part A base rate
only may be paid without Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits FTB Part A may not be
paid (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits FTB Part A may not be
paid without Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income test (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Maintenance Income Test (MIT)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) (pf)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Newborn Supplement (NBS) (each)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Newborn Supplement (NBS) (pf/pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Newborn Upfront Payment (NBU) (each)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - rates (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - rates (pf)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A Supplement

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - Energy Supplement (pf)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - income test (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - rates (pf)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - rates with/without supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rates - Approved Care Organisations (ACO)

Farm Household Allowance

Farm Household Allowance – Rent Assistance

Historical information

Hourly rate cap – Child Care Subsidy

Incentive Allowance (IA) - rates

Incidentals Allowance - ABSTUDY

Income cut-offs for current card holders - Low Income Health Care Card
(LIC)

Income eligibility for claims and renewals - Low Income Health Care Card
(LIC)

Income free area - Allowances

Income free area - Pension

Income free area (Transitional) - Pension

Income limits - above which only the base rate of Family Tax Benefit
(FTB) Part A will be paid

Income limits - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Income limits - Disability Support Pension (DSP (youth)

Income limits - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A base rate only may be
paid without Energy Supplement (pa)

Income limits - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A may not be paid (pa)

Income limits - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A may not be paid without
Energy Supplement (pa)

Income limits - Paid Parental Leave

Income limits Allowance customer - pension partner

Income test - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pa)

Income test - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B (pa)

Income test - Parenting Payment (PP)

Income test - Stillborn Baby Payment (SBP)

Income test cut-offs - Austudy

Income test cut-offs – JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance (WA),
Partner Allowance (PA), Sickness Allowance (SA)

Income Test thresholds - Allowances and Austudy

Income threshold - Assurer

Income threshold - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Income threshold - Child Care Subsidy

JET Child Care fee assistance (JETCCFA)

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - Energy Supplement

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - personal income test thresholds

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - income test cut-offs

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - rates

Living Allowance - ABSTUDY

Low Income Health Care Card (LIC) - income cut-offs for current card
holders

Low Income Health Care Card (LIC) - income eligibility for claims and
renewals

Maintenance income free area - Allowances

Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA)

Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA) - Allowance customers

Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Maintenance Income Test (MIT) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Maintenance Income Test Reducible Amount (MRA)

Masters and Doctorate Allowance - ABSTUDY

Means tests - ABSTUDY

Mobility Allowance (MOB)

Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pf)

Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Multiple child loading - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Newborn Supplement (NBS) (each) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Newborn Supplement (NBS) (pf/pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Newborn Upfront Payment (NBU) (each) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Paid Parental Leave - income limits

Parental Income Test - ABSTUDY

Parental Income Test (PIT) - Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Parental Income Test (PIT) - Youth Allowance (YA)

Parental Leave Pay (PPL) - rates

Parenting Payment (PP) - Energy Supplement

Parenting Payment (PP) - income test

Parenting Payment (PP) - rates

Partner Allowance (PA) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

Partner Allowance (PA) - Energy Supplement

Partner Allowance (PA) - income test cut-offs

Partner Allowance (PA) - rates

Partner Income Test - ABSTUDY

Pension - assets free areas

Pension - deeming thresholds

Pension - disqualifying assets limits

Pension - disqualifying assets limits (Transitional)

Pension - disqualifying income limits

Pension - disqualifying income limits (Transitional)

Pension - income free area

Pension - income free area (Transitional)

Pension - Primary Production Attribution thresholds

Pension Advance rates

Pension Bonus - Pension Supplement component

Pension Bonus Scheme (PBS)

Pension customer income limits - Allowance customer

Pension rates - Energy Supplement

Pension rates – fortnightly amounts

Pension Supplement component for Pension Bonus

Pension Supplement rates - Basic amount

Pension rates - Basic amount (Transitional)

Pension Supplement rates - Minimum amount

Pension Supplement rates – Remaining amount

Pension Transitional rates - Energy Supplement

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Personal Income Test - ABSTUDY

Personal Income Test - Youth Allowance (YA)

Personal Income Test thresholds - Allowances and Austudy

Pharmaceutical Allowance (PhA)

Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Safety Net - thresholds

Primary Production Attribution thresholds - Pension

Rates - ABSTUDY

Rates - Austudy (incl. special rates and over Age Pension age)

Rates - Dad and Partner Pay (DAP)

Rates - Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pa)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pf)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - with/without supplement (pa)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B (pf)

JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance (WA), Partner Allowance (PA),
Wife Pension (WP), Sickness Allowance (SA)

Rates - Parental Leave Pay (PPL)

Rates - Parenting Payment (PP)

Rates - Pension Advance

Rates - Pension Supplement - Basic amount

Rates - Pension Supplement - Basic amount (Transitional)

Rates - Pension Supplement - Minimum amount

Rates - Pension Supplement - Minimum amount (Transitional)

Rates – Pension Supplement – Remaining amount

Rates - Youth Allowance (incl. special Rate and YDS)

Rates (per hour/week) - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Relocation Allowance - ABSTUDY

Relocation Scholarship (RS) - ABSTUDY

Remote Area Allowance

Rent Assistance – ABSTUDY

Rent Assistance - Annual Rent Assistance rates under the A New Tax
System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Rent Assistance - Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for shared
care situations

Rent Assistance - Default minimum Rent Assistance amounts for shared
care situations

Rent Assistance – Farm Household Allowance

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the A New Tax System (Family
Assistance) Act 1999

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the Social Security Act 1991
(SS Act)

Safety Net - Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) thresholds

School Fees Allowance Group 2 (Boarding) - ABSTUDY

School term allowance - four instalments - ABSTUDY

Second Home Allowance (pa/pf) - Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Shared care situations - Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for
shared care situations

Shared care situations - Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for
shared care situations

Shared care situations - Default minimum Rent Assistance amounts for
shared care situations

Sickness Allowance (SA) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

Sickness Allowance (SA) - Energy Supplement

Sickness Allowance (SA) - income test cut-offs

Sickness Allowance (SA) - rates

Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS)

Social Security Act 1991 - Rent Assistance rates for payments under the
Social Security Act 1991 (SS Act)

Special Benefit Payment Rates (CO029)

Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) payment

Stillborn Baby Payment (SBP) - income test

Student Relocation Scholarship (RS)

Student Start-up Loan (SSL)

Student Start-up Payments - ABSTUDY

Supplement - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Supplement (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B

Supplementary Allowances - ABSTUDY

Telephone Allowance (TAL)

Thresholds - Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Safety Net

Utilities Allowance (UA)

Widow Allowance (WA) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

Widow Allowance (WA) - Energy Supplement

Widow Allowance (WA) - income test cut-offs

Widow Allowance (WA) - rates

Wife Pension – see JobSeeker Payment (JSP)

Youth Allowance (YA) - Parental Income Test (PIT)

Youth Allowance (YA) - Personal Income Test

Youth Allowance (YA) - rates (incl. special Rate and YDS)

Youth Allowance (YA) rates - Energy Supplement

Families

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - related rates per fortnight

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income test

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - related rates per annum

Approved Care Organisations (ACO) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rates

Income limits for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - related rates per fortnight

Family Tax Benefit (Part B) - income test

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - rates of payment per annum

Other Families related rates

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - related rates per fortnight

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

FTB A rates for 2020-21 financial year, Energy supplement, Multiple
Birth Allowance, Newborn Supplement, Newborn Upfront Payment

+---------+--------:+--------:+--------:+--------:+--------:+---------+
| Maximum | 20 Sep  | 1 Jan   |         | I       |         |         |
| Rates   | 2021    | 2022    |         | ncrease |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Payment |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $191.24 | $191.24 |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 0 - 12, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $248.78 | $248.78 |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 13 -    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 15,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $248.78 | $248.78 |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 16 -    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 19,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| se      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| condary |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tudent, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Base    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Rates   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| of      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Payment |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $61.46  | $61.46  |         | -       | pf      |         |
| under   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 18,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $61.46  | $61.46  |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 18 -    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 19,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| se      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| condary |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tudent, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Energy  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sup     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| plement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| maximum |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rate)   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $3.50   | $3.50   |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 0 - 12, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $4.48   | $4.48   |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 13 -    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 15,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $4.48   | $4.48   |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 16 -    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 19,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| se      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| condary |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tudent, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Energy  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sup     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| plement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (base   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| rate)   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $1.40   | $1.40   |         | -       | pf      |         |
| under   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 18,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $1.40   | $1.40   |         | -       | pf      |         |
| 18 -    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| 19,     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| se      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| condary |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| s       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| tudent, |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| M       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ultiple |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Birth   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Al      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| lowance |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| T       | $165.34 | $165.34 |         | -       | pf      |         |
| riplets |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Quad    | $220.22 | $220.22 |         | -       | pf      |         |
| ruplets |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or more |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Newborn |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Sup     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| plement |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| First   | $265.44 | $265.44 |         | -       | pf      |         |
| child,  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| or      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ultiple |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| birth   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (fortn  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ightly) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| First   | $6      | $6      |         | -       | pa      |         |
| child,  | ,920.40 | ,920.40 |         |         |         |         |
| or      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| m       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ultiple |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| birth   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (a      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nnual*) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Second  | $88.62  | $88.62  | -       |         | pf      |         |
| and     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sub     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sequent |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| child   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (fortn  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| ightly) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Second  | $2      | $2      | -       |         | pa      |         |
| and     | ,310.45 | ,310.45 |         |         |         |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sub     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| sequent |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| child   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (a      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| nnual*) |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| *       |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Payment |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payable |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| over 13 |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| weeks.  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Annual  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| amount  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is not  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| total a |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| re      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cipient |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| would   |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| receive |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| over    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| the     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| entire  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| year    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| (as the |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payment |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is only |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| payable |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for 13  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| weeks). |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Annual  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| amount  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| is      |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| solely  |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| cal     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| culated |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| for     |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| DHS'    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| system. |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Newborn |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Upfront |         |         |         |         |         |         |
| Payment |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+
| Child,  | $575.00 | $575.00 |         | -       | ea      |         |
| each    |         |         |         |         |         |         |
+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+---------+

For more information see About.

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income test

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

FTB income tests (IFA and Maintenance) for 2020-21 financial year

+-----------+----------:+----------:+----------:+----------:+-----------+
| Family    | 20 Sep    | 1 Jan     | Increase  |           |           |
| Tax       | 2021      | 2022      |           |           |           |
| Benefit   |           |           |           |           |           |
| (Part A)  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Income    |           |           |           |           |           |
| Test      |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Income    | $         | $         | -         | pa        |           |
| limit for | 56,137.00 | 56,137.00 |           |           |           |
| Maximum   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Payment   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Income    | $         | $         | -         | pa        |           |
| limit at  | 99,864.00 | 99,864.00 |           |           |           |
| which     |           |           |           |           |           |
| base rate |           |           |           |           |           |
| begins to |           |           |           |           |           |
| reduce    |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Ma        |           |           |           |           |           |
| intenance |           |           |           |           |           |
| Income    |           |           |           |           |           |
| Test      |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Ma        |           |           |           |           |           |
| intenance |           |           |           |           |           |
| Income    |           |           |           |           |           |
| Free      |           |           |           |           |           |
| Areas     |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| - Single  | $1,697.25 | $1,697.25 | -         | pa        |           |
| parent or |           |           |           |           |           |
| one of a  |           |           |           |           |           |
| couple    |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| receiving |           |           |           |           |           |
| ma        |           |           |           |           |           |
| intenance |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| - Couple, | $3,394.50 | $3,394.50 | -         | pa        |           |
| both      |           |           |           |           |           |
| receiving |           |           |           |           |           |
| ma        |           |           |           |           |           |
| intenance |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| - For     | $565.75   | $565.75   | -         | pa        |           |
| each      |           |           |           |           |           |
| a         |           |           |           |           |           |
| dditional |           |           |           |           |           |
| child     |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

For more information see About.

Income limits may be higher if eligible for Rent Assistance.

Income limits may depend on the number of children in the customer’s
care and their ages.

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - related rates per annum

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

FTB A rates for 2020-21 financial year, Energy supplement, Multiple
Birth Allowance, FTB Part A Supplement, Newborn Supplement, Newborn
Upfront Payment

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family Tax  |             |             |             |             |
| Benefit     |             |             |             |             |
| (Part A)    |             |             |             |             |
| Rates of    |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| Rates of    |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 0 -  | $4,985.90   | $4,985.90   | -           | pa          |
| 12, each    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 13 - | $6,486.05   | $6,486.05   | -           | pa          |
| 15, each    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 16 - | $6,486.05   | $6,486.05   | -           | pa          |
| 19,         |             |             |             |             |
| secondary   |             |             |             |             |
| student,    |             |             |             |             |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Base Rates  |             |             |             |             |
| of Payment  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child,      | $1,602.35   | $1,602.35   | -           | pa          |
| under 18,   |             |             |             |             |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 18 - | $1,602.35   | $1,602.35   | -           | pa          |
| 19,         |             |             |             |             |
| secondary   |             |             |             |             |
| student,    |             |             |             |             |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
| (maximum    |             |             |             |             |
| rate)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 0 -  | $91.25      | $91.25      | -           | pa          |
| 12, each    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 13 - | $116.80     | $116.80     | -           | pa          |
| 15, each    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 16 - | $116.80     | $116.80     | -           | pa          |
| 19,         |             |             |             |             |
| secondary   |             |             |             |             |
| student,    |             |             |             |             |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
| (base rate) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child,      | $36.50      | $36.50      | -           | pa          |
| under 18,   |             |             |             |             |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child, 18 - | $36.50      | $36.50      | -           | pa          |
| 19,         |             |             |             |             |
| secondary   |             |             |             |             |
| student,    |             |             |             |             |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| FTB(A)      |             |             |             |             |
| supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| End of year | $788.40     | $788.40     | -           | pa          |
| lump sum    |             |             |             |             |
| per         |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| FTB(A)      |             |             |             |             |
| penalty     |             |             |             |             |
| reduction   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Annual      | $773.80     | $773.80     | -           | pa          |
| amount      |             |             |             |             |
| reduction   |             |             |             |             |
| per         |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Fortnightly | $29.68      | $29.68      | -           | pf          |
| amount      |             |             |             |             |
| reduction   |             |             |             |             |
| per         |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Daily       | $2.12       | $2.12       | -           | pd          |
| amount      |             |             |             |             |
| reduction   |             |             |             |             |
| per         |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Multiple    |             |             |             |             |
| Birth       |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Triplets    | $4,310.65   | $4,310.65   | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Quadruplets | $5,741.45   | $5,741.45   | -           | pa          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Newborn     |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| First       | $1,725.36   | $1,725.36   | -           | ea          |
| Child, or   |             |             |             |             |
| multiple    |             |             |             |             |
| birth       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Second and  | $576.03     | $576.03     | -           | ea          |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
| subsequent  |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Payable     |             |             |             |             |
| over 13     |             |             |             |             |
| weeks.      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Approved Care Organisations (ACO) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rates

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

FTB Approved Care Organisation Rates for 2020-21 financial year

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Rates of    |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child 0 -   | $61.46      | $61.46      | -           | pf          |
| 19          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child 0 -   | $1,602.35   | $1,602.35   | -           | pa          |
| 19          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child 0 -   | $0.98       | $0.98       | -           | pf          |
| 19          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child 0 -   | $25.55      | $25.55      | -           | pa          |
| 19          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Income limits for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

Table 1: Income limit above which only the base rate of Family Tax
Benefit Part A may be paid ($p.a.)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| From : 01   | No.         |             |             |             |
| Jan 2022    | children    |             |             |             |
|             | 13–15 years |             |             |             |
|             | or          |             |             |             |
|             | secondary   |             |             |             |
|             | students    |             |             |             |
|             | 16–19 years |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| No.         | Nil         | 1           | 2           | 3           |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| aged 0–12   |             |             |             |             |
| yrs         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Nil         | -           | $80,957     | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | $73,329     | $98,149     | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | $90,520     | n/a         | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | n/a         | n/a         | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: The income limits at which Family Tax Benefit Part A, may not
be paid ($p.a.)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| From : 01   | No.         |             |             |             |
| Jan 2022    | children    |             |             |             |
|             | 13–15 years |             |             |             |
|             | or          |             |             |             |
|             | secondary   |             |             |             |
|             | students    |             |             |             |
|             | 16–19 years |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| No.         | Nil         | 1           | 2           | 3           |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| aged 0–12   |             |             |             |             |
| yrs         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Nil         | -           | $105,327    | $114,732    | $136,742    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | $105,327    | $110,790    | $131,656    | $153,665    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | $110,790    | $126,570    | $148,580    | $170,589    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | $121,485    | $143,494    | $165,504    | $187,513    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: The income limit above which only the base rate of Family Tax
Benefit Part A, may be paid ($p.a.) without Energy Supplement

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| From : 01   | No.         |             |             |             |
| Jan 2022    | children    |             |             |             |
|             | 13–15 years |             |             |             |
|             | or          |             |             |             |
|             | secondary   |             |             |             |
|             | students    |             |             |             |
|             | 16–19 years |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| No.         | Nil         | 1           | 2           | 3           |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| aged 0–12   |             |             |             |             |
| yrs         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Nil         | -           | $80,556     | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | $73,055     | $97,474     | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | $89,973     | n/a         | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | n/a         | n/a         | n/a         | n/a         |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 4: The income limits at which Family Tax Benefit Part A, may not
be paid ($p.a.) without Energy Supplement

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| From : 01   | No.         |             |             |             |
| Jan 2022    | children    |             |             |             |
|             | 13–15 years |             |             |             |
|             | or          |             |             |             |
|             | secondary   |             |             |             |
|             | students    |             |             |             |
|             | 16–19 years |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| No.         | Nil         | 1           | 2           | 3           |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| aged 0–12   |             |             |             |             |
| yrs         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Nil         | -           | $105,206    | $113,953    | $135,574    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1           | $105,206    | $110,547    | $130,573    | $152,193    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2           | $110,547    | $125,573    | $147,193    | $168,813    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3           | $120,572    | $142,192    | $163,812    | $185,433    |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - related rates per fortnight

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

FTB B rates for 2020-21 financial year

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+----------:+
| Family    |           |           |           |           |           |
| Tax       |           |           |           |           |           |
| Benefit   |           |           |           |           |           |
| (Part B)  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Rates of  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Payment   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Maximum   |           | 20 Sep    | 1 Jan     | Increase  |           |
| Rates of  |           | 2021      | 2022      |           |           |
| Payment - |           |           |           |           |           |
| excluding |           |           |           |           |           |
| s         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $162.54   | $162.54   | -         | pf        |
| child     |           |           |           |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $113.54   | $113.54   | -         | pf        |
| child 5 - |           |           |           |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Energy    |           |           |           |           |           |
| S         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $2.80     | $2.80     | -         | pf        |
| child     |           |           |           |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $1.96     | $1.96     | -         | pf        |
| child 5 - |           |           |           |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| A         |           |           |           |           |           |
| secondary |           |           |           |           |           |
| earner    |           |           |           |           |           |
| can still |           |           |           |           |           |
| get some  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Family    |           |           |           |           |           |
| Tax       |           |           |           |           |           |
| Benefit   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Part B if |           |           |           |           |           |
| their     |           |           |           |           |           |
| income is |           |           |           |           |           |
| below:    |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| With      |           |           |           |           |           |
| Energy    |           |           |           |           |           |
| S         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child     |           | 27,394.00 | 27,394.00 |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child 5 - |           | 20,897.00 | 20,897.00 |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Without   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Energy    |           |           |           |           |           |
| S         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child     |           | 27,029.00 | 27,029.00 |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child 5 - |           | 20,641.00 | 20,641.00 |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| This      |           |           |           |           |           |
| income    |           |           |           |           |           |
| limit     |           |           |           |           |           |
| excludes  |           |           |           |           |           |
| cons      |           |           |           |           |           |
| ideration |           |           |           |           |           |
| of the    |           |           |           |           |           |
| FTB       |           |           |           |           |           |
| su        |           |           |           |           |           |
| pplement. |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

For more information see About.

Family Tax Benefit (Part B) - income test

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

Family Tax Benefit (Part B) Income Test

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
|           |           | 20 Sep    | 1 Jan     | Increase  |           |
|           |           | 2021      | 2022      |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Income    |           | $5,840.00 | $5,840.00 | -         | pa        |
| free area |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Income    |           | $1        | $1        | -         | pa        |
| limit     |           | 00,900.00 | 00,900.00 |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

For more information see About.

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - rates of payment per annum

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

Family Tax Benefit (Part B) Rates of payment per annum

+-----------+-----------+----------:+----------:+----------:+----------:+
|           |           | 20 Sep    | 1 Jan     | Increase  |           |
|           |           | 2021      | 2022      |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Maximum   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Rates of  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Payment - |           |           |           |           |           |
| excluding |           |           |           |           |           |
| s         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $4,237.65 | $4,237.65 | -         | pa        |
| child     |           |           |           |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $2,960.15 | $2,960.15 | -         | pa        |
| child 5 - |           |           |           |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Energy    |           |           |           |           |           |
| S         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $73.00    | $73.00    | -         | pa        |
| child     |           |           |           |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $51.10    | $51.10    | -         | pa        |
| child 5 - |           |           |           |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| FTB(B)    |           |           |           |           |           |
| s         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| End of    |           | $383.25   | $383.25   | -         | pa        |
| year lump |           |           |           |           |           |
| sum per   |           |           |           |           |           |
| eligible  |           |           |           |           |           |
| family    |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Maximum   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Rates of  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Payment - |           |           |           |           |           |
| including |           |           |           |           |           |
| s         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $4,620.90 | $4,620.90 | -         | pa        |
| child     |           |           |           |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $3,343.40 | $3,343.40 | -         | pa        |
| child 5 - |           |           |           |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| A         |           |           |           |           |           |
| secondary |           |           |           |           |           |
| earner    |           |           |           |           |           |
| can still |           |           |           |           |           |
| get some  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Family    |           |           |           |           |           |
| Tax       |           |           |           |           |           |
| Benefit   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Part B if |           |           |           |           |           |
| their     |           |           |           |           |           |
| income is |           |           |           |           |           |
| below:    |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| With      |           |           |           |           |           |
| Energy    |           |           |           |           |           |
| S         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child     |           | 29,310.00 | 29,310.00 |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child 5 - |           | 22,813.00 | 22,813.00 |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Without   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Energy    |           |           |           |           |           |
| S         |           |           |           |           |           |
| upplement |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child     |           | 28,945.00 | 28,945.00 |           |           |
| under 5   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Youngest  |           | $         | $         | -         | pa        |
| child 5 - |           | 22,557.00 | 22,557.00 |           |           |
| 18        |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

For more information see About.

Other Families related rates

The majority of Families related rates are paid based on income from/for
full financial years. The current financial year is 2020-21. To test
individual customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly
available Rate Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live
customer records should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and
Legislation)

Table 1: Family Tax Benefit Advance

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
|           |           | 20 Sep    | 1 Jan     | Increase  |           |
|           |           | 2021      | 2022      |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Maximum   |           | $1,161.71 | $1,161.71 | -         | ea        |
| Amount    |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

AWE Indexation Factor

+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| For adjustment of     | 20 Sep 2021           | 1 Jan 2022            |
| Assessable Family     |                       |                       |
| Income                |                       |                       |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+
| Uplift Factor         | 1.019                 | 1.019                 |
+-----------------------+-----------------------+-----------------------+

Table 2: Stillborn Baby Payment and income test

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| St        |           | 20 Sep    | 1 Jan     | Increase  |           |
| illbirths |           | 2021      | 2022      |           |           |
| before 1  |           |           |           |           |           |
| January   |           |           |           |           |           |
| 2021      |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| First     |           | $2,300.36 | $2,300.36 | -         |           |
| child, or |           |           |           |           |           |
| multiple  |           |           |           |           |           |
| birth     |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Second    |           | $1,151.03 | $1,151.03 | -         |           |
| and each  |           |           |           |           |           |
| s         |           |           |           |           |           |
| ubsequent |           |           |           |           |           |
| child     |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| St        |           |           |           |           |           |
| illbirths |           |           |           |           |           |
| after 1   |           |           |           |           |           |
| January   |           |           |           |           |           |
| 2021      |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Stillborn |           | $3,639.04 | $3,639.04 | -         | ea        |
| Baby      |           |           |           |           |           |
| Payment,  |           |           |           |           |           |
| per child |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
|           |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Stillborn |           |           |           |           |           |
| Baby      |           |           |           |           |           |
| Payment   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Income    |           |           |           |           |           |
| Test      |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
|           |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| Income    |           | $         | $         | -         | ba        |
| limit (6  |           | 64,890.00 | 64,890.00 |           |           |
| month     |           |           |           |           |           |
| period)   |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

Table 3: Paid Parental Leave Rates

+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
|           |           | 20 Sep    | 1 Jan     | Increase  |           |
|           |           | 2021      | 2022      |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+
| I         |           | $1        | $1        | -         | pa        |
| ndividual |           | 51,350.00 | 51,350.00 |           |           |
| ATI Limit |           |           |           |           |           |
+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+-----------+

For more information see About.

Child Care

Child Care Subsidy

Child Care Benefit - rates, threshold, loadings and income limits

Child Care Rebate

JETCCFA - Jobs, Education and Training Child Care Fee Assistance

Child Care Subsidy

Child Care Subsidy - income thresholds, annual subsidy cap and hourly
rate caps

Income threshold - Child Care Subsidy

Annual subsidy cap - Child Care Subsidy

Hourly rate cap – Child Care Subsidy

Child Care Benefit - rates, threshold, loadings and income limits

CCB and CCR lump sum claims regarding approved care and CCB Registered
Care for care received prior to 2 July 2018, can be lodged up until 30
June 2019. CCB and CCR have been replaced by CCS. To test individual
customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly available Rate
Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live customer records
should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and Legislation)

Child Care Benefit rates, thresholds, loadings and limits

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 1 Jan 2018  | 20 Mar 2018 | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Hourly      |             |             |             |             |
| Maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| Rates       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 1 child   | $4.300      | $4.300      | $-          | ph          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 2         | $4.493      | $4.493      | $-          | ph          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 3         | $4.674      | $4.674      | $-          | ph          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 4         | $4.674      | $4.674      | $-          | ph          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - add for   | $4.674      | $4.674      | $-          | ph          |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| child in    |             |             |             |             |
| care        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Weekly      |             |             |             |             |
| Maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| Rates       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 1 child   | $215.000    | $215.000    | $-          | pw          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 2         | $449.320    | $449.320    | $-          | pw          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 3         | $701.140    | $701.140    | $-          | pw          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 4         | $934.853    | $934.853    | $-          | pw          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - add for   | $233.713    | $233.713    | $-          | pw          |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| child in    |             |             |             |             |
| care        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Registered  |             |             |             |             |
| Care Rate   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Hourly      | $0.719      | $0.719      | $-          | ph          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Weekly      | $35.950     | $35.950     | $-          | pw          |
| (based on   |             |             |             |             |
| 50 hours    |             |             |             |             |
| pw)         |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Income      |             |             |             |             |
| Thresholds  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Lower       | $45,114     | $45,114     | $-          | pa          |
| Income      |             |             |             |             |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Upper       | $105,263    | $105,263    | $-          | pa          |
| Income      |             |             |             |             |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Multiple    |             |             |             |             |
| Child       |             |             |             |             |
| Loadings    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Multiple    | $19.320     | $19.320     | $-          | pw          |
| for 2       |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Multiple    | $56.140     | $56.140     | $-          | pw          |
| for 3       |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Income      |             |             |             |             |
| Limits      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 1 child   | $156,914.00 | $156,914.00 | $-          | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 2         | $162,632.16 | $162,632.16 | $-          | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 3         | $183,654.23 | $183,654.23 | $-          | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 4         | $218,377.35 | $218,377.35 | $-          | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - add for   | $34,723.12  | $34,723.12  | $-          | pa          |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| child in    |             |             |             |             |
| care        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Child Care Rebate

CCB and CCR lump sum claims regarding approved care and CCB Registered
Care for care received prior to 2 July 2018, can be lodged up until 30
June 2019. CCB and CCR have been replaced by CCS. To test individual
customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly available Rate
Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live customer records
should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and Legislation)

Child Care Rebate

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 1 Jan 2018  | 20 Mar 2018 | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Threshold   | $7,613.00   | $7,613.00   | $-          | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

JETCCFA - Jobs, Education and Training Child Care Fee Assistance

CCB and CCR lump sum claims regarding approved care and CCB Registered
Care for care received prior to 2 July 2018, can be lodged up until 30
June 2019. CCB and CCR have been replaced by CCS. To test individual
customers’ circumstances, use the department’s publicly available Rate
Estimators. Manual rate calculations used on live customer records
should be taken from the Guide (see: About > Policy and Legislation)

JETCCFA - Jobs, Education and Training Child Care Fee Assistance

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 1 Jan 2018  | 20 Mar 2018 | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Hourly      |             |             |             |             |
| Maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| Rates       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Rate        | $8.40       | $8.40       | $-          | ph          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Pensions

Advance rates

Adult Pension rates - fortnightly amounts

Pension Supplement rates

Energy Supplement - Pension rates

Pension income free area and disqualifying limits

Pension asset free areas and disqualifying limits

Youth Disability Rates

Youth Disability Support Pension income and asset limits

Other Pension related rates

Advance rates

Adult Pension Advance Rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+-------------+------------:+
| Single*     | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Minimum     | $457.55     | $457.55     | -           | ea          |
| qualifying  |             |             |             |             |
| amount of   |             |             |             |             |
| advance     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Absolute    | $1,372.65   | $1,372.65   | -           | ea          |
| maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| advance     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Minimum     | $344.90     | $344.90     | -           | ea          |
| qualifying  |             |             |             |             |
| amount of   |             |             |             |             |
| advance     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Absolute    | $1,034.70   | $1,034.70   | -           | ea          |
| maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| advance     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Also      |             |             |             |             |
| illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -separated, |             |             |             |             |
| respite     |             |             |             |             |
| care or     |             |             |             |             |
| partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| gaol.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1. The      |             |             |             |             |
| absolute    |             |             |             |             |
| maximum and |             |             |             |             |
| minimum     |             |             |             |             |
| qualifying  |             |             |             |             |
| amounts     |             |             |             |             |
| above do    |             |             |             |             |
| not apply   |             |             |             |             |
| to          |             |             |             |             |
| pensioners  |             |             |             |             |
| who are not |             |             |             |             |
| resident in |             |             |             |             |
| Australia   |             |             |             |             |
| or with a   |             |             |             |             |
| temporary   |             |             |             |             |
| absence >   |             |             |             |             |
| maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| portability |             |             |             |             |
| period or   |             |             |             |             |
| pensioners  |             |             |             |             |
| on          |             |             |             |             |
| t           |             |             |             |             |
| ransitional |             |             |             |             |
| rates.      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 2. The      |             |             |             |             |
| maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| and/or      |             |             |             |             |
| minimum     |             |             |             |             |
| qualifying  |             |             |             |             |
| amount of   |             |             |             |             |
| advance for |             |             |             |             |
| individual  |             |             |             |             |
| pensioners  |             |             |             |             |
| will vary   |             |             |             |             |
| with their  |             |             |             |             |
| ci          |             |             |             |             |
| rcumstances |             |             |             |             |
| and rate of |             |             |             |             |
| pension.    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Adult Pension rates - fortnightly amounts

Table 1: Adult Pension rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Single*     | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Base        | $882.20     | $882.20     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Supplement  | $71.20      | $71.20      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $14.10      | $14.10      | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $967.50     | $967.50     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Base        | $665.00     | $665.00     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Supplement  | $53.70      | $53.70      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $10.60      | $10.60      | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $729.30     | $729.30     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Also      |             |             |             |             |
| illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -separated, |             |             |             |             |
| respite     |             |             |             |             |
| care or     |             |             |             |             |
| partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| gaol.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Adult Transitional Pension rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Resident in | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Australia   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single*     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | $793.20     | $793.20     | -           | pf          |
| T           |             |             |             |             |
| ransitional |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| Rate        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $14.10      | $14.10      | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $807.30     | $807.30     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | $640.60     | $640.60     | -           | pf          |
| T           |             |             |             |             |
| ransitional |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| Rate        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $10.60      | $10.60      | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $651.20     | $651.20     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Not         |             |             |             |             |
| resident in |             |             |             |             |
| Australia   |             |             |             |             |
| or with a   |             |             |             |             |
| temporary   |             |             |             |             |
| absence >   |             |             |             |             |
| maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| portability |             |             |             |             |
| period      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single*     | $727.40     | $727.40     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $608.00     | $608.00     | -           | pf          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Also      |             |             |             |             |
| illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -separated, |             |             |             |             |
| respite     |             |             |             |             |
| care or     |             |             |             |             |
| partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| gaol.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Pension Supplement rates

Table 1: Adult Pension Supplement - Basic Amount (PSBAS/TNTAX)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Adult       | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
| Basic       |             |             |             |             |
| Amount*     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $24.70      | $24.70      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illness     | $24.70      | $24.70      | -           | pf          |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care or     |             |             |             |             |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $20.40      | $20.40      | -           | pf          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * frozen at |             |             |             |             |
| the rate    |             |             |             |             |
| payable on  |             |             |             |             |
| 19^(th)     |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
| of $19.70   |             |             |             |             |
| for former  |             |             |             |             |
| Wife        |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| customers   |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| JSP from 20 |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Adult Pension Supplement Minimum Amount (PSMIN/TNMIN)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $38.30      | $38.30      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illness     | $38.30      | $38.30      | -           | pf          |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care or     |             |             |             |             |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $28.90      | $28.90      | -           | pf          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * frozen at |             |             |             |             |
| the rate    |             |             |             |             |
| payable on  |             |             |             |             |
| 19^(th)     |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
| of $19.70   |             |             |             |             |
| for former  |             |             |             |             |
| Wife        |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| customers   |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| JSP from 20 |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Adult Pension Supplement Remaining Amount (PSREM/TNNTX)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $8.20       | $8.20       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illness     | $8.20       | $8.20       | -           | pf          |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care or     |             |             |             |             |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $4.40       | $4.40       | -           | pf          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * frozen at |             |             |             |             |
| the rate    |             |             |             |             |
| payable on  |             |             |             |             |
| 19^(th)     |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
| of $4.30    |             |             |             |             |
| for former  |             |             |             |             |
| Wife        |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| customers   |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| JSP from 20 |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 4: Adult Transitional Pension Basic Amount

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single*     | $727.40     | $727.40     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $608.00     | $608.00     | -           | pf          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Also      |             |             |             |             |
| illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -separated, |             |             |             |             |
| respite     |             |             |             |             |
| care or     |             |             |             |             |
| partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| gaol.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| The adult   |             |             |             |             |
| t           |             |             |             |             |
| ransitional |             |             |             |             |
| pension     |             |             |             |             |
| basic       |             |             |             |             |
| amount is   |             |             |             |             |
| the same    |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| resident    |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
| n           |             |             |             |             |
| on-resident |             |             |             |             |
| pensioners  |             |             |             |             |
| for all     |             |             |             |             |
| family      |             |             |             |             |
| situations. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 5: Adult Transitional Pension Supplement Minimum Amount (TRMIN)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $38.30      | $38.30      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illness     | $38.30      | $38.30      | -           | pf          |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care or     |             |             |             |             |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $28.90      | $28.90      | -           | pf          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Not         |             |             |             |             |
| resident in |             |             |             |             |
| Australia   |             |             |             |             |
| or with a   |             |             |             |             |
| temporary   |             |             |             |             |
| absence >   |             |             |             |             |
| maximum     |             |             |             |             |
| portability |             |             |             |             |
| period,     |             |             |             |             |
| minimum     |             |             |             |             |
| amount =    |             |             |             |             |
| NIL in all  |             |             |             |             |
| family      |             |             |             |             |
| situations. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * frozen at |             |             |             |             |
| the rate    |             |             |             |             |
| payable on  |             |             |             |             |
| 19^(th)     |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
| for former  |             |             |             |             |
| Wife        |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| customers   |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| JSP from 20 |             |             |             |             |
| March 2020  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Energy Supplement - Pension rates

Table 1: Energy Supplement Pension rates – Fortnightly amounts

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $14.10      | $14.10      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $10.60      | $10.60      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^For long   |             |             |             |             |
| term income |             |             |             |             |
| support     |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| undertaking |             |             |             |             |
| full-time   |             |             |             |             |
| or          |             |             |             |             |
| c           |             |             |             |             |
| oncessional |             |             |             |             |
| study-load  |             |             |             |             |
| study in a  |             |             |             |             |
| course that |             |             |             |             |
| the person  |             |             |             |             |
| has         |             |             |             |             |
| commenced   |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22, |             |             |             |             |
| or an       |             |             |             |             |
| apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| who became  |             |             |             |             |
| an          |             |             |             |             |
| Australian  |             |             |             |             |
| Apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22. |             |             |             |             |
| A migrant   |             |             |             |             |
| studying    |             |             |             |             |
| English may |             |             |             |             |
| also be     |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| for this    |             |             |             |             |
| special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Energy Supplement (Parenting Payment)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      |             |             |             |             |
| Parent      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $ 12.00     | $ 12.00     | $ -         | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $ 7.90      | $ 7.90      | $ -         | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      |             |             |             |             |
| Parent      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $ 14.10     | $ 14.10     | $ -         | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $ 10.60     | $ 10.60     | $ -         | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Pension income free area and disqualifying limits

Table 1: Pension Income Free Areas

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $180.00     | $180.00     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single + 1  | $180.00     | $180.00     | -           | pf          |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $320.00     | $320.00     | -           | pf          |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| For each    | -           | -           | -           | pf          |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child add   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $320.00     | $320.00     | -           | pf          |
| s-separated |             |             |             |             |
| (couple     |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Pension Disqualifying Income Limits

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation - |             |             |             |             |
| Resident    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $2,115.00   | $2,115.00   | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single + 1  | $2,115.00   | $2,115.00   | -           | pf          |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $3,237.20   | $3,237.20   | -           | pf          |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| For each    | -           | -           | -           | pf          |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child add   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $4,190.00   | $4,190.00   | -           | pf          |
| s-separated |             |             |             |             |
| (couple     |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation - |             |             |             |             |
| N           |             |             |             |             |
| on-Resident |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $1,993.80   | $1,993.80   | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $3,061.60   | $3,061.60   | -           | pf          |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $3,947.60   | $3,947.60   | -           | pf          |
| s-separated |             |             |             |             |
| (couple     |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Transitional Rate Income Free Areas

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $180.00     | $180.00     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single + 1  | $204.60     | $204.60     | -           | pf          |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $320.00     | $320.00     | -           | pf          |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| For each    |             |             |             |             |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| child, add: |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| except      | $24.60      | $24.60      | -           | pf          |
| where       |             |             |             |             |
| partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| and partner |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| pension     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| where       | $12.30      | $12.30      | -           | pf          |
| partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| and partner |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| pension     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $320.00     | $320.00     | -           | pf          |
| s-separated |             |             |             |             |
| (couple     |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 4: Transitional Disqualifying Income Limits

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation - |             |             |             |             |
| Resident    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $2,198.25   | $2,198.25   | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single + 1  | $2,222.85   | $2,222.85   | -           | pf          |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $3,576.00   | $3,576.00   | -           | pf          |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $4,356.50   | $4,356.50   | -           | pf          |
| s-separated |             |             |             |             |
| (couple     |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      |             |             |             |             |
| Situation - |             |             |             |             |
| N           |             |             |             |             |
| on-Resident |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $1,998.50   | $1,998.50   | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single + 1  | $2,023.10   | $2,023.10   | -           | pf          |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $3,360.00   | $3,360.00   | -           | pf          |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $3,957.00   | $3,957.00   | -           | pf          |
| s-separated |             |             |             |             |
| (couple     |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Pension asset free areas and disqualifying limits

Table 1: Pension Assets Free Areas

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Homeowners      | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Family          |                 |                 |                 |
| Situation       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single          | $270,500        | $270,500        | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $405,000        | $405,000        | -               |
| (combined)      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $405,000        | $405,000        | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined)       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Non-Homeowners  |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Family          |                 |                 |                 |
| Situation       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single          | $487,000        | $487,000        | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $621,500        | $621,500        | -               |
| (combined)      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $621,500        | $621,500        | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined)       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Retirement      |                 |                 |                 |
| Village &       |                 |                 |                 |
| Granny Flat     |                 |                 |                 |
| Residents       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Extra Allowable | $216,500        | $216,500        | -               |
| Amount          |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Special         |                 |                 |                 |
| Disability      |                 |                 |                 |
| Trust           |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Concessional    | $700,250        | $700,250        | -               |
| Asset Value     |                 |                 |                 |
| Limit           |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Exempt Funeral  |                 |                 |                 |
| Investment      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Exempt Funeral  | $13,500         | $13,500         | -               |
| Investment      |                 |                 |                 |
| Threshold       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

Table 2: Pension Disqualifying Assets Limits for single, couple, illness
separated, home owner, non-home owner

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Family          | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
| Situation -     |                 |                 |                 |
| Resident        |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $593,000        | $593,000        | -               |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $809,500        | $809,500        | -               |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $891,500        | $891,500        | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $1,108,000      | $1,108,000      | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $891,500        | $891,500        | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $1,108,000      | $1,108,000      | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $1,050,000      | $1,050,000      | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $1,266,500      | $1,266,500      | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Family          |                 |                 |                 |
| Situation -     |                 |                 |                 |
| Non-Resident    |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $573,000        | $573,000        | -               |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $789,500        | $789,500        | -               |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $862,000        | $862,000        | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $1,078,500      | $1,078,500      | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $862,000        | $862,000        | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $1,078,500      | $1,078,500      | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $1,010,000      | $1,010,000      | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $1,226,500      | $1,226,500      | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

Table 3: Transitional Rate Pension Disqualifying Assets Limits

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Family          | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
| Situation -     |                 |                 |                 |
| Resident        |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $539,750        | $539,750        | -               |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $756,250        | $756,250        | -               |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $839,500        | $839,500        | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $1,056,000      | $1,056,000      | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $839,500        | $839,500        | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $1,056,000      | $1,056,000      | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $943,500        | $943,500        | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $1,160,000      | $1,160,000      | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Family          |                 |                 |                 |
| Situation -     |                 |                 |                 |
| Non-Resident    |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $513,000        | $513,000        | -               |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single,         | $729,500        | $729,500        | -               |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $810,500        | $810,500        | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $1,027,000      | $1,027,000      | -               |
| (combined),     |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $810,500        | $810,500        | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| One partner     | $1,027,000      | $1,027,000      | -               |
| eligible        |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $890,000        | $890,000        | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| homeowner       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Il              | $1,106,500      | $1,106,500      | -               |
| lness-separated |                 |                 |                 |
| (couple         |                 |                 |                 |
| combined),      |                 |                 |                 |
| non-homeowner   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

For more information see About.

Youth Disability Rates

Table 1: Youth Disability Support Pension Rates - Per Fortnight

Note: the Youth Disability Supplement is already included in the single
and member of a couple rates listed below.

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     |             |             |             |             |
| under 18    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Dependent   | $435.10     | $450.30     | $15.20      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent | $644.40     | $666.90     | $22.50      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     |             |             |             |             |
| 18 - 20     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Dependent   | $486.50     | $503.50     | $17.00      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent | $644.40     | $666.90     | $22.50      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Member of a | $644.40     | $666.90     | $22.50      | pf          |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Youth       | $131.90     | $136.50     | $4.60       | pf          |
| Disability  |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Energy Supplement - Per Fortnight

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     |             |             |             |             |
| under 18    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Dependent   | $5.90       | $5.90       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent | $9.10       | $9.10       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     |             |             |             |             |
| 18 - 20     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Dependent   | $6.60       | $6.60       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent | $9.10       | $9.10       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Member of a | $9.10       | $9.10       | -           | pf          |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Youth Disability Support Pension income and asset limits

Table 1: Youth Disability Support Pension Income Limits*

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $1,074.40   | $1,104.80   | $30.40      | pf          |
| under 18,   |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $1,499.40   | $1,544.40   | $45.00      | pf          |
| under 18,   |             |             |             |             |
| independent |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $1,178.60   | $1,212.60   | $34.00      | pf          |
| 18 - 20,    |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $1,499.40   | $1,544.40   | $45.00      | pf          |
| 18 - 20,    |             |             |             |             |
| independent |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple,     | $2,946.40   | $3,036.40   | $90.00      | pf          |
| under 21    |             |             |             |             |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *Includes   |             |             |             |             |
| Energy      |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
| Pha         |             |             |             |             |
| rmaceutical |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance.  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Youth Disability Support Pension Asset Limits*

+-----------------+----------------:+----------------:+----------------:+
| Homeowners      | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, under   | $419,750        | $424,750        | $5,000          |
| 18, dependent   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, under   | $490,500        | $498,000        | $7,500          |
| 18, independent |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, 18 -    | $437,000        | $442,750        | $5,750          |
| 20, dependent   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, 18 -    | $490,500        | $498,000        | $7,500          |
| 20, independent |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple, under   | $843,000        | $858,000        | $15,000         |
| 21 (combined)   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Non-Homeowners  | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, under   | $636,250        | $641,250        | $5,000          |
| 18, dependent   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, under   | $707,000        | $714,500        | $7,500          |
| 18, independent |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, 18 -    | $653,500        | $659,250        | $5,750          |
| 20, dependent   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single, 18 -    | $707,000        | $714,500        | $7,500          |
| 20, independent |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple, under   | $1,059,500      | $1,074,500      | $15,000         |
| 21 (combined)   |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| *Includes       |                 |                 |                 |
| Energy          |                 |                 |                 |
| Supplement and  |                 |                 |                 |
| Pharmaceutical  |                 |                 |                 |
| Allowance.      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

For more information see About.

Other Pension related rates

Table 1: Pension Bonus Scheme

+-----------------+----------------:+----------------:+----------------:+
| Years (Bonus    | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
| Periods)        |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 1               | $2,216.50       | $2,216.50       | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 2               | $8,865.90       | $8,865.90       | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 3               | $19,948.20      | $19,948.20      | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 4               | $35,463.40      | $35,463.40      | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 5               | $55,411.60      | $55,411.60      | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Partnered (ea)  |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Years (Bonus    | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
| Periods)        |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 1               | $1,675.10       | $1,675.10       | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 2               | $6,700.50       | $6,700.50       | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 3               | $15,076.10      | $15,076.10      | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 4               | $26,801.90      | $26,801.90      | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| 5               | $41,877.90      | $41,877.90      | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| * Also          |                 |                 |                 |
| ill             |                 |                 |                 |
| ness-separated, |                 |                 |                 |
| respite care or |                 |                 |                 |
| partner in      |                 |                 |                 |
| gaol.           |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

Table 2: Pension Supplement Component for Pension Bonus

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $642.20     | $642.20     | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illness     | $642.20     | $642.20     | -           | pa          |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care or     |             |             |             |             |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $530.40     | $530.40     | -           | pa          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Deeming Thresholds

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
|                 | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single          | $53,600         | $53,600         | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Couple          | $89,000         | $89,000         | -               |
| (combined)      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

Table 4: Primary Production Attribution Thresholds

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Assets      | $1,274,500  | $1,274,500  | -           |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Income      | $56,137     | $56,137     | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 5: Carer Payment - Care Receiver Income and Asset Limits

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Income      | $116,189    | $120,605    | $4,416.00   | pa          |
| Limit       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Lower Asset | $716,750    | $744,000    | $27,250.00  |             |
| Limit       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Higher      | $1,064,750  | $1,105,250  | $40,500.00  |             |
| Asset Limit |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Allowances

JobSeeker Payment (JSP), WA, PA, WP, SA, SpB

Youth Allowance - rates

Austudy

Income and asset tests/cut-offs

Student Payment and parameters for other payments, loans and offsets

Parenting Payment - rates

JobSeeker Payment (JSP), WA, PA, WP, SA, SpB

Table 1: Allowance and Income Support rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 22  | $629.50     | $629.50     | -           | pf          |
| or over, no |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 22  | $676.80     | $676.80     | -           | pf          |
| or over,    |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 60  | $676.80     | $676.80     | -           | pf          |
| or over,    |             |             |             |             |
| after 9     |             |             |             |             |
| months      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $573.30     | $573.30     | -           | pf          |
| (each)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $862.10     | $862.10     | -           | pf          |
| principal   |             |             |             |             |
| carer of    |             |             |             |             |
| child,      |             |             |             |             |
| exempt from |             |             |             |             |
| activity    |             |             |             |             |
| test        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Former Wife |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| transferred |             |             |             |             |
| to          |             |             |             |             |
| JobSeeker   |             |             |             |             |
| Payment -   |             |             |             |             |
| see Social  |             |             |             |             |
| Security    |             |             |             |             |
| Guide,      |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
| Rates for   |             |             |             |             |
| rate        |             |             |             |             |
| information |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Energy Supplement (JobSeeker Payment (JSP), WA, PA, SA, SpB)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under Age   |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 22  | $8.80       | $8.80       | -           | pf          |
| or over, no |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 22  | $9.50       | $9.50       | -           | pf          |
| or over,    |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 60  | $9.50       | $9.50       | -           | pf          |
| or over,    |             |             |             |             |
| after 9     |             |             |             |             |
| months      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $7.90       | $7.90       | -           | pf          |
| (each)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $12.00      | $12.00      | -           | pf          |
| principal   |             |             |             |             |
| carer of    |             |             |             |             |
| child,      |             |             |             |             |
| exempt from |             |             |             |             |
| activity    |             |             |             |             |
| test        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $14.10      | $14.10      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $10.60      | $10.60      | -           | pf          |
| (each)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Allowance Supplement Amount (JobSeeker Payment (JSP), WA, PA,
SA, SpB, ABSTUDY: Over Age Pension age)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $71.20      | $71.20      | -           | pf          |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $53.70      | $53.70      | -           | pf          |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Youth Allowance - rates

Table 1: Youth Allowance Rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Under 18, | $303.20     | $313.80     | $10.60      | pf          |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Under 18, | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| away from   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 18 or     | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| over, away  |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 18 or     | $354.60     | $367.00     | $12.40      | pf          |
| over, at    |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $656.00     | $679.00     | $23.00      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $862.10     | $862.10     | -           | pf          |
| principal   |             |             |             |             |
| carer of    |             |             |             |             |
| child,      |             |             |             |             |
| exempt from |             |             |             |             |
| activity    |             |             |             |             |
| test        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $557.90     | $577.40     | $19.50      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| Youth       |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance^  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $423.70     | $438.50     | $14.80      | pf          |
| living at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $611.90     | $633.30     | $21.40      | pf          |
| living away |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $557.90     | $577.40     | $19.50      | pf          |
| Partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^For        |             |             |             |             |
| long-term   |             |             |             |             |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
| or migrant  |             |             |             |             |
| English     |             |             |             |             |
| students 22 |             |             |             |             |
| years or    |             |             |             |             |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
| commencing  |             |             |             |             |
| full-time   |             |             |             |             |
| study or    |             |             |             |             |
| Australian  |             |             |             |             |
| Appr        |             |             |             |             |
| enticeship. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Energy Supplement (Youth Allowance)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Under 18, | $3.90       | $3.90       | -           | pf          |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Under 18, | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| away from   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 18 or     | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| over, away  |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 18 or     | $4.60       | $4.60       | -           | pf          |
| over, at    |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $9.20       | $9.20       | -           | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $12.00      | $12.00      | -           | pf          |
| principal   |             |             |             |             |
| carer of    |             |             |             |             |
| child,      |             |             |             |             |
| exempt from |             |             |             |             |
| activity    |             |             |             |             |
| test        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| Youth       |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance ^ |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $5.70       | $5.70       | -           | pf          |
| living at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $8.60       | $8.60       | -           | pf          |
| living away |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| Partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| Youth       |             |             |             |             |
| Disability  |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
| (YDS)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      |             |             |             |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Under 18, | $5.90       | $5.90       | -           | pf          |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Under 18, | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| away from   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 18 or     | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| over, away  |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - 18 or     | $6.60       | $6.60       | -           | pf          |
| over, at    |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $9.20       | $9.20       | -           | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^For        |             |             |             |             |
| long-term   |             |             |             |             |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
| or migrant  |             |             |             |             |
| English     |             |             |             |             |
| students 22 |             |             |             |             |
| years or    |             |             |             |             |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
| commencing  |             |             |             |             |
| full-time   |             |             |             |             |
| study or    |             |             |             |             |
| Australian  |             |             |             |             |
| Appr        |             |             |             |             |
| enticeship. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Austudy

Table 1: Austudy payment rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $656.00     | $679.00     | $23.00      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $557.90     | $577.40     | $19.50      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| Austudy     |             |             |             |             |
| Payment*    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single    | $611.90     | $633.30     | $21.40      | pf          |
| (no         |             |             |             |             |
| children),  |             |             |             |             |
| living away |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - A couple, | $557.90     | $577.40     | $19.50      | pf          |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *For long   |             |             |             |             |
| term income |             |             |             |             |
| support     |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| undertaking |             |             |             |             |
| full-time   |             |             |             |             |
| or          |             |             |             |             |
| c           |             |             |             |             |
| oncessional |             |             |             |             |
| study-load  |             |             |             |             |
| study in a  |             |             |             |             |
| course that |             |             |             |             |
| the person  |             |             |             |             |
| has         |             |             |             |             |
| commenced   |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22, |             |             |             |             |
| or an       |             |             |             |             |
| apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| who became  |             |             |             |             |
| an          |             |             |             |             |
| Australian  |             |             |             |             |
| Apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22. |             |             |             |             |
| A migrant   |             |             |             |             |
| studying    |             |             |             |             |
| English may |             |             |             |             |
| also be     |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| for this    |             |             |             |             |
| special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Energy Supplement (Austudy)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under Age   |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $9.20       | $9.20       | -           | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| Austudy ^   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $8.60       | $8.60       | -           | pf          |
| living away |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| Partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $14.10      | $14.10      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $10.60      | $10.60      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^For long   |             |             |             |             |
| term income |             |             |             |             |
| support     |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| undertaking |             |             |             |             |
| full-time   |             |             |             |             |
| or          |             |             |             |             |
| c           |             |             |             |             |
| oncessional |             |             |             |             |
| study-load  |             |             |             |             |
| study in a  |             |             |             |             |
| course that |             |             |             |             |
| the person  |             |             |             |             |
| has         |             |             |             |             |
| commenced   |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22, |             |             |             |             |
| or an       |             |             |             |             |
| apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| who became  |             |             |             |             |
| an          |             |             |             |             |
| Australian  |             |             |             |             |
| Apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22. |             |             |             |             |
| A migrant   |             |             |             |             |
| studying    |             |             |             |             |
| English may |             |             |             |             |
| also be     |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| for this    |             |             |             |             |
| special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Income and asset tests/cut-offs

Table 1: Income test cut-offs for JobSeeker Payment (JSP), WA, PA, SA,
SpB

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 22  | $1,231.50   | $1,231.50   | -           | pf          |
| or over, no |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 22  | $1,311.50   | $1,311.50   | -           | pf          |
| or over,    |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 60  | $1,321.84   | $1,321.84   | -           | pf          |
| or over,    |             |             |             |             |
| after 9     |             |             |             |             |
| months*     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $1,136.34   | $1,136.34   | -           | pf          |
| (each)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 22  | $1,881.25   | $1,881.25   | -           | pf          |
| or over,    |             |             |             |             |
| principal   |             |             |             |             |
| carer with  |             |             |             |             |
| children*   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $2,350.75   | $2,350.75   | -           | pf          |
| principal   |             |             |             |             |
| carer,      |             |             |             |             |
| exempt from |             |             |             |             |
| activity    |             |             |             |             |
| test*       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $2,105.67   | $2,105.67   | -           | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| (excluding  |             |             |             |             |
| JobSeeker   |             |             |             |             |
| Payment)    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | #N/A        |             |             |             |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| (JobSeeker  |             |             |             |             |
| Payment)    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *Includes   |             |             |             |             |
| Pha         |             |             |             |             |
| rmaceutical |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance.  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^(#)Income  |             |             |             |             |
| limits for  |             |             |             |             |
| allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
| may differ  |             |             |             |             |
| from these  |             |             |             |             |
| amounts.    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Income test cut-offs for Austudy payment

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $1,317.34   | $1,362.67   | $45.33      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $1,560.17   | $1,614.00   | $53.83      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $1,394.17   | $1,442.17   | $48.00      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $1,317.34   | $1,362.67   | $45.33      | pf          |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| Austudy     |             |             |             |             |
| Payment^    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $1,485.67   | $1,536.84   | $51.17      | pf          |
| living away |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $1,394.17   | $1,442.17   | $48.00      | pf          |
| Partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^For long   |             |             |             |             |
| term income |             |             |             |             |
| support     |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| undertaking |             |             |             |             |
| full-time   |             |             |             |             |
| or          |             |             |             |             |
| c           |             |             |             |             |
| oncessional |             |             |             |             |
| study-load  |             |             |             |             |
| study in a  |             |             |             |             |
| course that |             |             |             |             |
| the person  |             |             |             |             |
| has         |             |             |             |             |
| commenced   |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22, |             |             |             |             |
| or an       |             |             |             |             |
| apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| who became  |             |             |             |             |
| an          |             |             |             |             |
| Australian  |             |             |             |             |
| Apprentice  |             |             |             |             |
| after       |             |             |             |             |
| turning 22. |             |             |             |             |
| A migrant   |             |             |             |             |
| studying    |             |             |             |             |
| English may |             |             |             |             |
| also be     |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| for this    |             |             |             |             |
| special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^(#)Income  |             |             |             |             |
| limits for  |             |             |             |             |
| allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
| may differ  |             |             |             |             |
| from these  |             |             |             |             |
| amounts.    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Personal Income Test for Youth Allowance

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     |             |             |             |             |
| under 18,   |             |             |             |             |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - students  | $963.34     | $996.50     | $33.16      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $678.50     | $696.17     | $17.67      | pf          |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 18  |             |             |             |             |
| and over,   |             |             |             |             |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - students  | $1,050.17   | $1,086.34   | $36.17      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $765.34     | $786.00     | $20.66      | pf          |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single or   |             |             |             |             |
| partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| away from   |             |             |             |             |
| home, no    |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - students  | $1,317.34   | $1,362.67   | $45.33      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $1,032.50   | $1,062.34   | $29.84      | pf          |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - students  | $1,394.17   | $1,442.17   | $48.00      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $1,109.34   | $1,141.84   | $32.50      | pf          |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - students  | $1,560.17   | $1,614.00   | $53.83      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $1,275.34   | $1,313.67   | $38.33      | pf          |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     |             |             |             |             |
| principal   |             |             |             |             |
| carer of    |             |             |             |             |
| child,      |             |             |             |             |
| exempt from |             |             |             |             |
| activity    |             |             |             |             |
| test        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $1,633.84   | $1,633.84   | -           | pf          |
| unemployed* |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Special     |             |             |             |             |
| rate of     |             |             |             |             |
| Youth       |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance^  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $1,167.17   | $1,207.34   | $40.17      | pf          |
| living at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $1,485.67   | $1,536.84   | $51.17      | pf          |
| living away |             |             |             |             |
| from home   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $1,394.17   | $1,394.17   | -           | pf          |
| Partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *Includes   |             |             |             |             |
| Pha         |             |             |             |             |
| rmaceutical |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance.  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^For        |             |             |             |             |
| long-term   |             |             |             |             |
| unemployed  |             |             |             |             |
| or migrant  |             |             |             |             |
| English     |             |             |             |             |
| students 22 |             |             |             |             |
| years or    |             |             |             |             |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
| commencing  |             |             |             |             |
| full-time   |             |             |             |             |
| study or    |             |             |             |             |
| Australian  |             |             |             |             |
| Appr        |             |             |             |             |
| enticeship. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 4: Parental Income Test for Youth Allowance

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Reduced     | $55,626.00  | $56,137.00  | $511.00     | pa          |
| payment if  |             |             |             |             |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| exceeds     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^Parental   |             |             |             |             |
| Income Test |             |             |             |             |
| is aligned  |             |             |             |             |
| with the 1  |             |             |             |             |
| January     |             |             |             |             |
| amount of   |             |             |             |             |
| the FTB A   |             |             |             |             |
| lower       |             |             |             |             |
| income free |             |             |             |             |
| area.       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 5: Maintenance Income Free Area

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $1,697.25   | $1,697.25   | -           | pa          |
| parent or   |             |             |             |             |
| one of a    |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| maintenance |             |             |             |             |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| For each    | $565.75     | $565.75     | -           | pa          |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| child add   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 6: Assets Test for Allowance (Independent)

+-----------------+----------------:+----------------:+----------------:+
| Family          | 20 Sep 2021     | 1 Jan 2022      | Increase        |
| Situation       |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Homeowners      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single          | $270,500        | $270,500        | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Partnered       | $405,000        | $405,000        | -               |
| (combined)      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Non-Homeowners  |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Single          | $487,000        | $487,000        | -               |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Partnered       | $621,500        | $621,500        | -               |
| (combined)      |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

Table 7: Personal Income Test Thresholds (Allowances and Austudy)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Austudy     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Lower       | $437.00     | $452.00     | $15.00      | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold   |             |             |             |             |
| (income     |             |             |             |             |
| free area)  |             |             |             |             |
| **          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Upper       | $524.00     | $542.00     | $18.00      | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold * |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Youth       |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (Students   |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
| A           |             |             |             |             |
| pprentices) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Lower       | $437.00     | $452.00     | $15.00      | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold   |             |             |             |             |
| (income     |             |             |             |             |
| free area)  |             |             |             |             |
| **          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Upper       | $524.00     | $542.00     | $18.00      | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold * |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Youth       |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (Jobseeker) |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Lower       | $150.00     | $150.00     | -           | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold   |             |             |             |             |
| (income     |             |             |             |             |
| free area)  |             |             |             |             |
| **          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Upper       | $250.00     | $250.00     | -           | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold * |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| JobSeeker   |             |             |             |             |
| Payment,    |             |             |             |             |
| WA, PA      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Lower       | $150.00     | $150.00     | -           | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold   |             |             |             |             |
| (income     |             |             |             |             |
| free area)  |             |             |             |             |
| **          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Upper       | $256.00     | $256.00     | -           | pf          |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold * |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Income    |             |             |             |             |
| over this   |             |             |             |             |
| amount      |             |             |             |             |
| reduces     |             |             |             |             |
| payment by  |             |             |             |             |
| 60 cents in |             |             |             |             |
| the dollar. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ** Income   |             |             |             |             |
| over this   |             |             |             |             |
| amount      |             |             |             |             |
| reduces     |             |             |             |             |
| payment by  |             |             |             |             |
| 50 cents in |             |             |             |             |
| the dollar. |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Student Payment and parameters for other payments, loans and offsets

Student Start-up Payment and Student Relocation Scholarship Payment

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Student     | $10,900.00  | $11,300.00  | $400.00     | pa          |
| Income Bank |             |             |             |             |
| Balance     |             |             |             |             |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Merit &     | $8,355.00   | $8,647.00   | $292.00     | pa          |
| Equity      |             |             |             |             |
| Based       |             |             |             |             |
| Scholarship |             |             |             |             |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Student     |             |             |             |             |
| Start-Up    |             |             |             |             |
| Payments    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Student     | $1,094.00   | $1,132.00   | $38.00      | ba          |
| Start-up    |             |             |             |             |
| Loan        |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Student     |             |             |             |             |
| Relocation  |             |             |             |             |
| Scholarship |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Initial     | $4,626.00   | $4,788.00   | $162.00     | pa          |
| Full        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Subsequent  | $1,156.00   | $1,196.00   | $40.00      | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Subsequent  | $2,314.00   | $2,395.00   | $81.00      | pa          |
| Regional    |             |             |             |             |
| Remote      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Parenting Payment - rates

Table 1: Parenting Payment Rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Single      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Parent      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Base Rate   | $837.40     | $837.40     | -           | pf          |
| of Pension  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Supplement  | $24.70      | $24.70      | -           | pf          |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $12.00      | $12.00      | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $874.10     | $874.10     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Base Rate   | $573.30     | $573.30     | -           | pf          |
| of          |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $7.90       | $7.90       | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $581.20     | $581.20     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      |             |             |             |             |
| Parent      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Base Rate   | $837.40     | $837.40     | -           | pf          |
| of Pension  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Supplement  | $71.20      | $71.20      | -           | pf          |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $14.10      | $14.10      | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $922.70     | $922.70     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Base Rate   | $573.30     | $573.30     | -           | pf          |
| of          |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Supplement  | $53.70      | $53.70      | -           | pf          |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Energy      | $10.60      | $10.60      | -           | pf          |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Total       | $637.60     | $637.60     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Income Test for Parenting Payment

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+-------------+
| Partnered   | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partner's   | $1,137.00   | $1,137.00   | -           | pf          |
| Free Area   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| For part    |             |             |             |             |
| payment of  |             |             |             |             |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| rate all of |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| following   |             |             |             |             |
| conditions  |             |             |             |             |
| must be     |             |             |             |             |
| met:        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| -           | $1,136.34   | $1,136.34   | -           | pf          |
| recipient's |             |             |             |             |
| income must |             |             |             |             |
| be less     |             |             |             |             |
| than        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - partner's | $2,105.67   | $2,105.67   | -           | pf          |
| income must |             |             |             |             |
| be less     |             |             |             |             |
| than        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - combined  | $2,273.34   | $2,273.34   | -           | pf          |
| income must |             |             |             |             |
| be less     |             |             |             |             |
| than        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| If partner  |             |             |             |             |
| is on       |             |             |             |             |
| pension,    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| couples     | $2,272.68   | $2,272.68   | -           | pf          |
| combined    |             |             |             |             |
| income must |             |             |             |             |
| be less     |             |             |             |             |
| than        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single*     | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Income Free | $194.60     | $194.60     | -           | pf          |
| area        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Di          |             |             |             |             |
| squalifying |             |             |             |             |
| Income      |             |             |             |             |
| Limits*     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - under Age | $2,395.35   | $2,395.35   | -           | pf          |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| age,        |             |             |             |             |
| including   |             |             |             |             |
| Pha         |             |             |             |             |
| rmaceutical |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ^(#)Income  |             |             |             |             |
| limits for  |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
| may differ  |             |             |             |             |
| from these  |             |             |             |             |
| amounts.    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *Income     |             |             |             |             |
| free areas  |             |             |             |             |
| and income  |             |             |             |             |
| limits for  |             |             |             |             |
| parents     |             |             |             |             |
| with more   |             |             |             |             |
| than one    |             |             |             |             |
| child may   |             |             |             |             |
| differ from |             |             |             |             |
| these       |             |             |             |             |
| amounts.    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

* For information about the income free area for Parenting Payment
Partnered and the tapering rates when over this amount, see the
Parenting Payment section of A guide to Australian Government payments

For more information see About.

ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY Living Allowance - rates

Energy Supplement

Means Tests

ABSTUDY Supplementary Allowances

ABSTUDY Living Allowance - rates

ABSTUDY Living Allowance Rates

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Living      |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| Rates       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Standard    | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $34.80      | $36.00      | $1.20       | pf          |
| Tertiary    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $303.20     | $313.80     | $10.60      | pf          |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $303.20     | $313.80     | $10.60      | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $354.60     | $367.00     | $12.40      | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| State Care  |             |             |             |             |
| only (no    |             |             |             |             |
| Foster      |             |             |             |             |
| Care)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State Care  |             |             |             |             |
| only (no    |             |             |             |             |
| Foster      |             |             |             |             |
| Care)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $303.20     | $313.80     | $10.60      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $354.60     | $367.00     | $12.40      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $629.50     | $629.50     | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Away from   |             |             |             |             |
| Home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $629.50     | $629.50     | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent |             |             |             |             |
| single, no  |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $629.50     | $629.50     | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 60 years or | $676.80     | $676.80     | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $303.20     | $313.80     | $10.60      | pf          |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $303.20     | $313.80     | $10.60      | pf          |
| years, at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $354.60     | $367.00     | $12.40      | pf          |
| years, at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent |             |             |             |             |
| partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $512.50     | $530.40     | $17.90      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $573.30     | $573.30     | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           |             |             |             |             |
| ndependent, |             |             |             |             |
| single with |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $656.00     | $679.00     | $23.00      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $656.00     | $679.00     | $23.00      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $676.80     | $676.80     | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           |             |             |             |             |
| ndependent, |             |             |             |             |
| partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $557.90     | $577.40     | $19.50      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $557.90     | $577.40     | $19.50      | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $573.30     | $573.30     | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Masters and | $1,096.90   | $1,106.70   | $9.80       | pf          |
| Doctorate   |             |             |             |             |
| Students    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Energy Supplement

Table 1: Recipients not receiving Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| not         |             |             |             |             |
| receiving   |             |             |             |             |
| Youth       |             |             |             |             |
| Disability  |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
| (YDS)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Standard    | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $0.50       | $0.50       | -           | pf          |
| Tertiary    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $3.90       | $3.90       | -           | pf          |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $3.90       | $3.90       | -           | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $4.60       | $4.60       | -           | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| State Care  |             |             |             |             |
| only (no    |             |             |             |             |
| Foster      |             |             |             |             |
| Care)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State Care  |             |             |             |             |
| only (no    |             |             |             |             |
| Foster      |             |             |             |             |
| Care)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $3.90       | $3.90       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $4.60       | $4.60       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $8.80       | $8.80       | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Away from   |             |             |             |             |
| Home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $8.80       | $8.80       | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent |             |             |             |             |
| single, no  |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $8.80       | $8.80       | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 60 years or | $9.50       | $9.50       | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $3.90       | $3.90       | -           | pf          |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $3.90       | $3.90       | -           | pf          |
| years, at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $4.60       | $4.60       | -           | pf          |
| years, at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent |             |             |             |             |
| partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $7.00       | $7.00       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $7.90       | $7.90       | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           |             |             |             |             |
| ndependent, |             |             |             |             |
| single with |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $9.20       | $9.20       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $9.20       | $9.20       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $9.50       | $9.50       | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           |             |             |             |             |
| ndependent, |             |             |             |             |
| partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 22 years or | $7.90       | $7.90       | -           | pf          |
| over        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Over Age    |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $14.10      | $14.10      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $10.60      | $10.60      | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Recipients receiving Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Standard    | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $2.50       | $2.50       | -           | pf          |
| Tertiary    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $5.90       | $5.90       | -           | pf          |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $5.90       | $5.90       | -           | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $6.60       | $6.60       | -           | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State and   |             |             |             |             |
| Foster Care |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| State Care  |             |             |             |             |
| only (no    |             |             |             |             |
| Foster      |             |             |             |             |
| Care)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| years,      |             |             |             |             |
| State Care  |             |             |             |             |
| only (no    |             |             |             |             |
| Foster      |             |             |             |             |
| Care)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $5.90       | $5.90       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $6.60       | $6.60       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Away from   |             |             |             |             |
| Home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent |             |             |             |             |
| single, no  |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $8.50       | $8.50       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16,   | $5.90       | $5.90       | -           | pf          |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 17    | $5.90       | $5.90       | -           | pf          |
| years, at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 18 to 21    | $6.60       | $6.60       | -           | pf          |
| years, at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Independent |             |             |             |             |
| partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           |             |             |             |             |
| ndependent, |             |             |             |             |
| single with |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $9.20       | $9.20       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $9.20       | $9.20       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| I           |             |             |             |             |
| ndependent, |             |             |             |             |
| partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 16    | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 16 to 21    | $7.70       | $7.70       | -           | pf          |
| years       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Means Tests

Personal, Parental and Partner Income Tests and thresholds for Living
Allowance

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Personal    |             |             |             |             |
| Income Test |             |             |             |             |
| for Living  |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Under 22    | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $963.34     | $996.50     | $33.16      | pf          |
| under 18    |             |             |             |             |
| years, at   |             |             |             |             |
| home        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 18  | $1,050.17   | $1,086.34   | $36.17      | pf          |
| and over,   |             |             |             |             |
| at home     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single or   | $1,317.34   | $1,362.67   | $45.33      | pf          |
| partnered,  |             |             |             |             |
| away from   |             |             |             |             |
| home, no    |             |             |             |             |
| dependants  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single with | $1,560.17   | $1,614.00   | $53.83      | pf          |
| dependants  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $1,394.17   | $1,442.17   | $48.00      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| dependants  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Over 22     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | $1,515.34   | $1,530.84   | $15.50      | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $1,420.17   | $1,435.67   | $15.50      | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single,     | $1,595.34   | $1,610.84   | $15.50      | pf          |
| with        |             |             |             |             |
| dependants  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Aged 60 or  | $1,605.67   | $1,621.17   | $15.50      | pf          |
| over*       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| *Includes   |             |             |             |             |
| Pha         |             |             |             |             |
| rmaceutical |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance.  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Parental    | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Income Test |             |             |             |             |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Reduced     | $55,626     | $56,137     | $511        | pa          |
| payment if  |             |             |             |             |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| exceeds     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Student     | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Thresholds  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Income Bank | $10,900.00  | $11,300.00  | $400.00     | pa          |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Merit &     | $8,355.00   | $8,647.00   | $292.00     | pa          |
| Equity      |             |             |             |             |
| Based       |             |             |             |             |
| S           |             |             |             |             |
| cholarships |             |             |             |             |
| Income      |             |             |             |             |
| Exemption   |             |             |             |             |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partner     | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Income Test |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partner     | $1,137.00   | $1,137.00   | -           | pf          |
| income free |             |             |             |             |
| area, aged  |             |             |             |             |
| 22 and      |             |             |             |             |
| over, no    |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

ABSTUDY Supplementary Allowances

Table 1: Masters and Doctorate Allowance

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Masters and | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Doctorate   |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Masters     | $420        | $420        | -           | ea          |
| Thesis      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Doctorate   | $840        | $840        | -           | ea          |
| Thesis      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Relocation  | $1,520      | $1,520      | -           | pa          |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Incidentals Allowance

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Incidentals | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Less than   | $89.40      | $92.50      | $3.10       | pa          |
| 12 week     |             |             |             |             |
| course      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 12 to 16    | $156.80     | $162.30     | $5.50       | pa          |
| week course |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 17 to 23    | $311.70     | $322.60     | $10.90      | pa          |
| week course |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 24 week to  | $633.50     | $655.70     | $22.20      | pa          |
| one year    |             |             |             |             |
| course      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Additional Incidentals Allowance

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Additional  | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Incidentals |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Less than   | $153.90     | $159.30     | $5.40       | pa          |
| 12 week     |             |             |             |             |
| course      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 12 to 16    | $304.90     | $315.60     | $10.70      | pa          |
| week course |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 17 to 23    | $609.40     | $630.70     | $21.30      | pa          |
| week course |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 24 week to  | $1,220.60   | $1,263.30   | $42.70      | pa          |
| one year    |             |             |             |             |
| course      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 4: School Fees Allowance Group 2 (Boarding)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| School Fees | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| Group 2     |             |             |             |             |
| (Boarding)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Non income  | $8,557.00   | $8,856.00   | $299.00     | pa          |
| testing     |             |             |             |             |
| component   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | $11,011.00  | $11,396.00  | $385.00     | pa          |
| rate        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 5: Relocation Scholarship

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Relocation  | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Scholarship |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Year 1,     | $4,626.00   | $4,788.00   | $162.00     | pa          |
| Regional    |             |             |             |             |
| and Metro   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Year 2 and  | $1,156.00   | $1,196.00   | $40.00      | pa          |
| subsequent, |             |             |             |             |
| Metro       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Years 2 and | $2,314.00   | $2,395.00   | $81.00      | pa          |
| 3, Regional |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Year 4 and  | $1,156.00   | $1,196.00   | $40.00      | pa          |
| subsequent, |             |             |             |             |
| Regional    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 6: Student Start-up Payments

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Student     | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Start-up    |             |             |             |             |
| Payments    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Student     | $1,094.00   | $1,132.00   | $38.00      | pa          |
| Start-up    |             |             |             |             |
| Loan        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 7: Education Provider Administration and Audit Costs

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Education   | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Provider    |             |             |             |             |
| Adm         |             |             |             |             |
| inistration |             |             |             |             |
| and Audit   |             |             |             |             |
| Costs       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Education   | $5,032.00   | $5,208.00   | $176.00     | pa          |
| Provider    |             |             |             |             |
| Adm         |             |             |             |             |
| inistration |             |             |             |             |
| and Audit   |             |             |             |             |
| Costs       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 8: Boarding School Scholarship Approval Threshold

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Boarding    |             |             |             |             |
| School      |             |             |             |             |
| Scholarship |             |             |             |             |
| Approval    |             |             |             |             |
| Threshold   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Scholarship | $6,096.00   | $6,309.00   | $213.00     | pa          |
| value       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Rent

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the Social Security Act 1991 (SS Act)

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Default Minimum Rent Assistance amounts for shared care situations

Annual Rent Assistance rates under the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for shared care situations

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the Social Security Act 1991 (SS Act)

Table 1: Maximum payment per fortnight

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | $142.80     | $142.80     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | $95.20      | $95.20      | -           | pf          |
| children,   |             |             |             |             |
| sharer      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, no  | $134.60     | $134.60     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $142.80     | $142.80     | -           | pf          |
| illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -separated, |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $134.60     | $134.60     | -           | pf          |
| temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| separated,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $84.20      | $84.20      | -           |             |
| 1 or 2      |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| (SS Act) *  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $94.80      | $94.80      | -           |             |
| 3 or more   |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| (SS Act) *  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Rent      |             |             |             |             |
| Assistance  |             |             |             |             |
| payable to  |             |             |             |             |
| families    |             |             |             |             |
| where one   |             |             |             |             |
| partner is  |             |             |             |             |
| paid under  |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| Veterans'   |             |             |             |             |
| Entitlement |             |             |             |             |
| Act.        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Rent threshold per fortnight

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | $127.60     | $127.60     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | $127.60     | $127.60     | -           | pf          |
| children,   |             |             |             |             |
| sharer      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, no  | $206.40     | $206.40     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $127.60     | $127.60     | -           | pf          |
| illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -separated, |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $127.60     | $127.60     | -           | pf          |
| temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| separated,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $247.80     | $247.80     | -           |             |
| 1 or 2      |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| (SS Act) *  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $247.80     | $247.80     | -           |             |
| 3 or more   |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| (SS Act) *  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Rent      |             |             |             |             |
| Assistance  |             |             |             |             |
| payable to  |             |             |             |             |
| families    |             |             |             |             |
| where one   |             |             |             |             |
| partner is  |             |             |             |             |
| paid under  |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| Veterans'   |             |             |             |             |
| Entitlement |             |             |             |             |
| Act.        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Minimum rent per fortnight to get maximum Rent Assistance

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | $318.00     | $318.00     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, no  | $254.54     | $254.54     | -           | pf          |
| children,   |             |             |             |             |
| sharer      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, no  | $385.87     | $385.87     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $318.00     | $318.00     | -           | pf          |
| illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -separated, |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $307.07     | $307.07     | -           | pf          |
| temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| separated,  |             |             |             |             |
| no children |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $472.34     | $472.34     | -           |             |
| 1 or 2      |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| (SS Act) *  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $500.60     | $500.60     | -           |             |
| 3 or more   |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
| (SS Act) *  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Rent      |             |             |             |             |
| Assistance  |             |             |             |             |
| payable to  |             |             |             |             |
| families    |             |             |             |             |
| where one   |             |             |             |             |
| partner is  |             |             |             |             |
| paid under  |             |             |             |             |
| the         |             |             |             |             |
| Veterans'   |             |             |             |             |
| Entitlement |             |             |             |             |
| Act.        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Table 1: Maximum Rent Assistance payment per fortnight

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 1   | $168.00     | $168.00     | -           | pf          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 3   | $189.70     | $189.70     | -           | pf          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 1   | $168.00     | $168.00     | -           | pf          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 3   | $189.70     | $189.70     | -           | pf          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1 or 2      | $168.00     | $168.00     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3 or more   | $189.70     | $189.70     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Rent threshold per fortnight

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 1   | $165.06     | $167.44     | $2.38       | pf          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 3   | $165.06     | $167.44     | $2.38       | pf          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 1   | $244.16     | $247.52     | $3.36       | pf          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 3   | $244.16     | $247.52     | $3.36       | pf          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1 or 2      | $165.06     | $167.44     | $2.38       | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3 or more   | $165.06     | $167.44     | $2.38       | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Minimum rent per fortnight to get maximum Rent Assistance

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 1   | $391.44     | $391.44     | -           | pf          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 3   | $420.38     | $420.38     | -           | pf          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 1   | $471.52     | $471.52     | -           | pf          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 3   | $500.46     | $500.46     | -           | pf          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1 or 2      | $391.44     | $391.44     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3 or more   | $420.38     | $420.38     | -           | pf          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Default Minimum Rent Assistance amounts for shared care situations

Table 1: Maximum Rent Assistance payment per fortnight

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $143.64     | $143.64     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $135.10     | $135.10     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $143.64     | $143.64     | -           | pf          |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol,       |             |             |             |             |
| Illnes      |             |             |             |             |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care Couple |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $135.10     | $135.10     | -           | pf          |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Rent threshold per fortnight

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $127.40     | $127.40     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $207.20     | $207.20     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $127.40     | $127.40     | -           | pf          |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol,       |             |             |             |             |
| Illnes      |             |             |             |             |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care Couple |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $127.40     | $127.40     | -           | pf          |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Minimum rent per fortnight to get maximum Rent Assistance

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $318.92     | $318.92     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $387.34     | $387.34     | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $318.92     | $318.92     | -           | pf          |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol,       |             |             |             |             |
| Illnes      |             |             |             |             |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care Couple |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $307.54     | $307.54     | -           | pf          |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Annual Rent Assistance rates under the A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Table 1: Maximum Rent Assistance payment per annum

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 1   | $4,380.00   | $4,380.00   | -           | pa          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 3   | $4,945.75   | $4,945.75   | -           | pa          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 1   | $4,380.00   | $4,380.00   | -           | pa          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 3   | $4,945.75   | $4,945.75   | -           | pa          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1 or 2      | $4,380.00   | $4,380.00   | -           | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3 or more   | $4,945.75   | $4,945.75   | -           | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Rent threshold per annum

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 1   | $4,365.40   | $4,365.40   | -           | pa          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 3   | $4,365.40   | $4,365.40   | -           | pa          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 1   | $6,453.20   | $6,453.20   | -           | pa          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 3   | $6,453.20   | $6,453.20   | -           | pa          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1 or 2      | $4,365.40   | $4,365.40   | -           | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3 or more   | $4,365.40   | $4,365.40   | -           | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Minimum rent to get maximum Rent Assistance per annum

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 1   | $10,205.40  | $10,205.40  | -           | pa          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single, 3   | $10,959.74  | $10,959.74  | -           | pa          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 1   | $12,293.20  | $12,293.20  | -           | pa          |
| or 2        |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple, 3   | $13,047.54  | $13,047.54  | -           | pa          |
| or more     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Illness     |             |             |             |             |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 1 or 2      | $10,205.40  | $10,205.40  | -           | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| 3 or more   | $10,959.74  | $10,959.74  | -           | pa          |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for shared care situations

Table 1: Maximum Rent Assistance payment per annum

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $3,744.90   | $3,744.90   | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $3,522.25   | $3,522.25   | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $3,744.90   | $3,744.90   | -           | pa          |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol,       |             |             |             |             |
| Illnes      |             |             |             |             |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care Couple |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $3,522.25   | $3,522.25   | -           | pa          |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Rent threshold per annum

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $3,321.50   | $3,321.50   | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $5,402.00   | $5,402.00   | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $3,321.50   | $3,321.50   | -           | pa          |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol,       |             |             |             |             |
| Illnes      |             |             |             |             |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care Couple |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $3,321.50   | $3,321.50   | -           | pa          |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 3: Minimum rent to get maximum Rent Assistance per annum

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $8,314.70   | $8,314.70   | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $10,098.34  | $10,098.34  | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $8,314.70   | $8,314.70   | -           | pa          |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol,       |             |             |             |             |
| Illnes      |             |             |             |             |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
| Couple,     |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care Couple |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered,  | $8,017.84   | $8,017.84   | -           | pa          |
| Temporarily |             |             |             |             |
| Separated   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Other

Pharmaceutical Allowance

Telephone Allowance

Energy Supplement for CSHC Holders

Utilities Allowance

Mobility Allowance

Carer Allowance

Additional Child Amounts

Permissible Child Earnings Limits

Low Income Health Care Cards (LIC)

Commonwealth Seniors Health Cards - Taxable Income Limits

Double Orphan Pension Basic Rate

Essential Medical Equipment Payment (EMEP)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Pharmaceutical Allowance

Pharmaceutical Allowance

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Annual      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $161.20     | $161.20     | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $80.60      | $80.60      | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $161.20     | $161.20     | -           | pa          |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Fortnightly |             |             |             |             |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $6.20       | $6.20       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $3.10       | $3.10       | -           | pf          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illnes      | $6.20       | $6.20       | -           | pf          |
| s-Separated |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Telephone Allowance

Table 1: Telephone Allowance rates

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Annual      | $125.60     | $125.60     | -           | pa          |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
| (single or  |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Quarterly   | $31.40      | $31.40      | -           | pq          |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
| (single or  |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      |             |             |             |             |
| rates       |             |             |             |             |
| shown. Each |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| member of a |             |             |             |             |
| couple on   |             |             |             |             |
| max rate    |             |             |             |             |
| may receive |             |             |             |             |
| half the    |             |             |             |             |
| single rate |             |             |             |             |
| per annum.  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Higher Rate Telephone Allowance

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Req. Home   | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Internet    |             |             |             |             |
| Access      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Annual      | $185.60     | $185.60     | -           | pa          |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
| (single or  |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Quarterly   | $46.40      | $46.40      | -           | pq          |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
| (single or  |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      |             |             |             |             |
| rates       |             |             |             |             |
| shown. Each |             |             |             |             |
| eligible    |             |             |             |             |
| member of a |             |             |             |             |
| couple on   |             |             |             |             |
| max rate    |             |             |             |             |
| may receive |             |             |             |             |
| half the    |             |             |             |             |
| single rate |             |             |             |             |
| per annum.  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Energy Supplement for CSHC Holders

Energy Supplement for CSHC Holders

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single      | $366.60     | $366.60     | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $275.60     | $275.60     | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Illness     | $366.60     | $366.60     | -           | pa          |
| -Separated, |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care or     |             |             |             |             |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Utilities Allowance

Utilities Allowance (paid quarterly: 20 Mar, 20 June, 20 Sept, 20 Dec)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Payable to  |             |             |             |             |
| Widow and   |             |             |             |             |
| Partner     |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| recipients  |             |             |             |             |
| under Age   |             |             |             |             |
| Pension age |             |             |             |             |
| and DSP     |             |             |             |             |
| under 21    |             |             |             |             |
| without     |             |             |             |             |
| children    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Annual    | $667.20     | $667.20     | -           | pa          |
| Amount      |             |             |             |             |
| (single or  |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Quarterly | $166.80     | $166.80     | -           | pq          |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
| (single or  |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
| combined)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| People in   |             |             |             |             |
| receipt of  |             |             |             |             |
| an income   |             |             |             |             |
| support     |             |             |             |             |
| payment     |             |             |             |             |
| that        |             |             |             |             |
| attracts a  |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| Supplement  |             |             |             |             |
| do not      |             |             |             |             |
| receive     |             |             |             |             |
| Utilities   |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Mobility Allowance

Mobility Allowance

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Standard    | $99.50      | $103.00     | $3.50       | pf          |
| Rate -      |             |             |             |             |
| Single or   |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Increased   | $139.10     | $144.00     | $4.90       | pf          |
| Rate -      |             |             |             |             |
| Single or   |             |             |             |             |
| couple      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Carer Allowance

Table 1: Carer Allowance Rate

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Carer       | $131.90     | $136.50     | $4.60       | pf          |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Carer Allowance – Adjusted Taxable Income Test Threshold

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Carer       | $ 250,000   | $ 250,000   | $ -         | pa          |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| The Carer   |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| income test |             |             |             |             |
| threshold   |             |             |             |             |
| is not      |             |             |             |             |
| subject to  |             |             |             |             |
| indexation. |             |             |             |             |
| The same    |             |             |             |             |
| threshold   |             |             |             |             |
| applies to  |             |             |             |             |
| both single |             |             |             |             |
| and         |             |             |             |             |
| partnered   |             |             |             |             |
| carers.     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Additional Child Amounts

Additional Child Amounts (Paid under some social security agreements)

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child aged  | $131.30     | $135.90     | $4.60       | pf          |
| under 13    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Child aged  | $182.80     | $189.20     | $6.40       | pf          |
| 13 - 15     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Payment to  | $62.50      | $64.70      | $2.20       | pf          |
| unpartnered |             |             |             |             |
| parent*     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * Formerly  |             |             |             |             |
| Guardians   |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Permissible Child Earnings Limits

Permissible Child Earnings Limits

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Dependent   | $217.00     | $224.60     | $7.60       | pw          |
| child under |             |             |             |             |
| 16          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Dependent   | $11,893.60  | $12,309.90  | $416.30     | pa          |
| child 16 -  |             |             |             |             |
| 21          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Low Income Health Care Cards (LIC)

Table 1: Low Income Health Care Cards (LIC)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single    | $644.00     | $644.00     | -           | pw          |
| (no         |             |             |             |             |
| children)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Couple,   | $1,107.00   | $1,107.00   | -           | pw          |
| combined    |             |             |             |             |
| (no         |             |             |             |             |
| children)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $1,107.00   | $1,107.00   | -           | pw          |
| one         |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - For each  | $34.00      | $34.00      | -           | pw          |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child add   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Table 2: Cut-offs for Low Income Health Care Cards (LIC)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single    | $805.00     | $805.00     | -           | pw          |
| (no         |             |             |             |             |
| children)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Couple,   | $1,383.75   | $1,383.75   | -           | pw          |
| combined    |             |             |             |             |
| (no         |             |             |             |             |
| children)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - Single,   | $1,383.75   | $1,383.75   | -           | pw          |
| one         |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| - For each  | $42.50      | $42.50      | -           | pw          |
| additional  |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child add   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Commonwealth Seniors Health Cards - Taxable Income Limits

Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) - Taxable Income Limits

+-------------+------------:+------------:+------------:+------------:+
| Family      | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Situation   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Single*     | $57,761.00  | $57,761.00  | -           | pa          |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Partnered   | $46,208.00  | $46,208.00  | -           | pa          |
| (ea)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Couple      | $92,416.00  | $92,416.00  | -           | pa          |
| (combined)  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Additional  | $639.60     | $639.60     | -           | pa          |
| amount for  |             |             |             |             |
| each        |             |             |             |             |
| dependent   |             |             |             |             |
| child of    |             |             |             |             |
| the person  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| * also      |             |             |             |             |
| Illness     |             |             |             |             |
| Separated,  |             |             |             |             |
| Respite     |             |             |             |             |
| Care or     |             |             |             |             |
| Partner in  |             |             |             |             |
| Gaol        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Double Orphan Pension Basic Rate

Double Orphan Pension Basic Rate

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
|             | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Double      | $66.10      | $68.40      | $2.30       | pf          |
| Orphan      |             |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Essential Medical Equipment Payment (EMEP)

Essential Medical Equipment Payment (EMEP)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Essential   | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
| Medical     |             |             |             |             |
| Equipment   |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
| (EMEP)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Payment     | $164.00     | $164.00     | -           | ea          |
| amount      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Assistance for Isolated Children Allowances, Thresholds and Parental
income test (AIC)

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Allowances  | 20 Sep 2021 | 1 Jan 2022  | Increase    |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Basic       | $8,557.00   | $8,856.00   | $299.00     | pa          |
| Boarding    |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Additional  | $2,454.00   | $2,540.00   | $86.00      | pa          |
| Boarding    |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Second Home | $6,499.00   | $6,726.00   | $227.00     | pa          |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Second Home | $249.28     | $257.98     | $8.70       | pf          |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Distance    | $4,278.00   | $4,428.00   | $150.00     | pa          |
| Education   |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Thresholds  |             |             |             |             |
| and Limits  |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | $11,011.00  | $11,396.00  | $385.00     | pa          |
| rate for    |             |             |             |             |
| AIC         |             |             |             |             |
| Boarding    |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Minimum     | $8,307.00   | $8,606.00   | $299.00     | pa          |
| boarding    |             |             |             |             |
| charge      |             |             |             |             |
| threshold   |             |             |             |             |
| for         |             |             |             |             |
| Additional  |             |             |             |             |
| Boarding    |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Maximum     | $19,497.00  | $20,178.00  | $681.00     | pa          |
| Second Home |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| for each    |             |             |             |             |
| family      |             |             |             |             |
| (three      |             |             |             |             |
| children)   |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Parental    |             |             |             |             |
| Income Test |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Reduced     | $55,626.00  | $56,137.00  | $511.00     | pa          |
| payment if  |             |             |             |             |
| income      |             |             |             |             |
| exceeds     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

For more information see About.

About

Key CPI and other dates impacting on Centrelink payments

Factsheets and payment booklet

Historical information

Related links

Policy and Legislation

Key CPI and other dates impacting on Centrelink payments

Rates, allowances and payments are indexed to the Consumer Price Index
(CPI) along with deeming thresholds, assets test free areas and income
test free areas. CPI changes occur 1 January, 20 March, 1 July and 20
September. There may be an occasional change outside of these dates.

Table 1: Dates on with Centrelink administered payments are revised and
republished.

+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Major       | 1 Jan       | 20 Mar      | 1 Jul       | 20 Sep      |
| payments    |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| ABSTUDY     | Revised/    |             |             |             |
|             | Updated     |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Austudy     | Revised/    |             |             |             |
|             | Updated     |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Childcare   |             |             | Revised/    |             |
|             |             |             | Updated     |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Disability  | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| Support     | Updated     |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| (DSP) under |             |             |             |             |
| 21          |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Families    |             |             | Revised/    |             |
|             |             |             | Updated     |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| JobSeeker   |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Payment     |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| (JSP)       |             |             |             |             |
| Widow       |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (WA)        |             |             |             |             |
| Partner     |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (PA)        |             |             |             |             |
| Sickness    |             |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (SA)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Parenting   |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Payment     |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| (PP)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Pensions    |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
|             |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Rent        |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Assistance  |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| (RA)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Youth       | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| Allowance   | Updated     |             |             |             |
| (YA)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Mi          |             |             |             |             |
| scellaneous |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Advance     |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Payment -   |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| Family Tax  |             |             |             |             |
| Benefit     |             |             |             |             |
| (FTB)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Advance     | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| payment -   | Updated     |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Assistance  | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| for         | Updated     |             |             |             |
| Isolated    |             |             |             |             |
| Children    |             |             |             |             |
| (AIC)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Carer       | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| Allowance   | Updated     |             |             |             |
| (CA)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| C           |             |             |             | Revised/    |
| ommonwealth |             |             |             | Updated     |
| Seniors     |             |             |             |             |
| Health Card |             |             |             |             |
| (CSHC)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Community   |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Development |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| Programme   |             |             |             |             |
| (CDP)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Disaster    | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| Recovery    | Updated     |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (DRA)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Double      | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| Orphan      | Updated     |             |             |             |
| Pension     |             |             |             |             |
| (DOP)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Essential   |             |             | Revised/    |             |
| Medical     |             |             | Updated     |             |
| Equipment   |             |             |             |             |
| Payment     |             |             |             |             |
| (EMEP)      |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Farm        |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Household   |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (FHA)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Health Care |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Card (HCC)  |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| & LIC       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Mobility    | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| Allowance   | Updated     |             |             |             |
| (MOB)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Pha         | Revised/    |             |             |             |
| rmaceutical | Updated     |             |             |             |
| Allowance   |             |             |             |             |
| (PhA)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Seniors     |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Supplement  |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| SRSS Living | Revised/    | Revised/    | Revised/    | Revised/    |
| Allowance   | Updated     | Updated     | Updated     | Updated     |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Telephone   |             |             |             | Revised/    |
| Allowance   |             |             |             | Updated     |
| (TAL)       |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+
| Utilities   |             | Revised/    |             | Revised/    |
| Allowance   |             | Updated     |             | Updated     |
| (UA)        |             |             |             |             |
+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+

Factsheets and payment booklet

Factsheets and payment booklet

The following factsheets and payments booklet contain additional rates
and payment information.

A guide to Australian Government payments (CO029)

Family Assistance Payment Rates (FPR006)

Historical information

Child Care Rebate (CCR) - Historical annual limit per child

Historical Centrelink rate charts

Historical versions of A guide to Australian Government payments

Department of Social Services

Previous Indexation Rates

Policy

Family Assistance Guide, 3.6, Historical Rates

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.10, Historical Income & Assets Limits &
Information

Guide to Social Security Law, 5.2, Historical Rates

Guide to Social Security Law, 5.2.6.10, RA Rates - June 1990 to Present
Date

Related links

The following links provide additional information about rates and
thresholds.

ABSTUDY - rates

ABSTUDY School term allowance - four instalments

Allowance income and assets tests

Assurer income threshold

Carer Supplement

Child Care Subsidy - income thresholds, annual subsidy cap and hourly
rate caps

Child Disability Assistance Payment (CDAP)

Coding a manual rate of payment 108-08180000

Dad and Partner Pay (DAP)

Education Entry Payment (EdEP) 108-08050000

Farm Household Allowance (FHA)

Incentive Allowance (IA) - rates

Income, assets and rates of payment 108-01000000

Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA)

Maintenance Income Test Reducible Amount (MRA)

Online estimator options 133-04120000

Parental Leave Pay (PPL)

Personal Income Test and Income Bank for ABSTUDY, Austudy and Youth
Allowance (YA) students and Australian Apprentices 010-08010010

Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Safety Net processing and enquiries

Rates of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) 010-05080000

Rate and payment of Farm Household Allowance (FHA) 002-03030000

Remote Area Allowance

Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS) - 007-10010000

Special Benefit (SpB) income and assets tests 003-08010020

Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) customer eligibility for
Rental Assistance Allowance 005-06010010

Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) customer eligibility for
Dependent Child Allowance 005-06010020

Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) payment eligibility for Living
Allowance 005-06010000

Transitional rules for pension customers who were on payment at 19
September 2009 108-03010070

Work Bonus and balance for pensioners of Age Pension age 108-07010130

Working Credit and the assessment of income 108-07020020

Policy and Legislation

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Guidelines

-   5.6, Current AIC allowance rates
-   6.9, Current AIC Scheme income limits
-   6.3, Calculating parental income

Rates

Guide to Social Security Law, 5.1.7, Supplementary Benefits - Current
Rates

Guide to Social Security Law, 5.1, Current Rates

Family Assistance Guide, 3, Rate Calculation

Guide to Social Security Law, 1.1.D.70, Dependent child

Historical rates and thresholds

See Historical information

Policy relating to asset types, exempt assets and asset hardship provisions

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.6, Assets

Pension, Benefit and Parenting Payment - Assets Test

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.2.3, Pensions & Benefits Assets Tests &
Limits

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.2.4.10, PPS Income & Assets Tests &
Limits

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.2.4.20, PPP Income & Assets Tests &
Limits

Payments under the Social Security Act and the Family Assistance Act

Guide to Social Security Law, 1.1.D.70, Dependent child

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.2.1.10, Pensions Income Test & Limits

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.2.2, Benefits Income Test & Limits

Guide to Social Security Law, 4.2.8.60, Other YA Recipients - Personal
Income Test & Limits

Family Assistance Guide, 2.1.1, FTB Child & Regular Care Child

Family Assistance Guide, 3.1.1.20, Current FTB rates & Income Test
Amounts

Family Assistance Guide, 3.5.2, Calculating Approved Care CCB
Entitlement

Legislation

Links to the Federal Register of Legislation site go to a 'Series' page.
Select the 'Latest' version.

Social Security Act 1991

-   section 1191, CPI Indexation Table
-   Part 3.12, Division 1, Value of person's assets
-   Chapter 2, Pensions, Benefits and Allowances
-   Chapter 3, General Provisions Relating to Payability and Rates
-   Part 3.7, Rent Assistance
-   section 8, Income Test definitions
-   section 1067G-H1, Effect of ordinary income on maximum payment rate
-   Chapter 3, General Provisions Relating to Payability and Rates
-   section 5, Family relationships definitions - children

Farm Household Support Act 2014

Family assistance payments

A New Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

-   Part 4, Division 1, Family tax benefit (Includes rates)
-   Schedule 1, Division 3, Certain recipients of pensions under the
    Veterans' Entitlements Act
-   Schedule 2, Child care benefit rate calculator

#

Families

Child Care

Pensions

Allowance

ABSTUDY

Rent

Others

Families

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - rates (pf)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pf)

Energy Supplement - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pf)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Energy Supplement (pf)

Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pf)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) (pf)

Newborn Supplement (NBS) (pf/pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Newborn Supplement (NBS) (pf/pa)

Newborn Upfront Payment (NBU) (each) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Newborn Upfront Payment (NBU) (each)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income test (pa)

Income test - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pa)

Maintenance Income Test (MIT) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Maintenance Income Test (MIT)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - rates (pa)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A (pa)

Energy Supplement (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A Supplement

Supplement - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Multiple Birth Allowance (MBA) (pa)

Newborn Supplement (NBS) (each) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - Newborn Supplement (NBS) (each)

Approved Care Organisations (ACO) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rates

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) rates - Approved Care Organisations (ACO)

Income limits - above which only the base rate of Family Tax Benefit
(FTB) Part A will be paid

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits above which only the
base rate of FTB Part A will be paid

Income limits - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A may not be paid (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits FTB Part A may not be
paid (pa)

Income limits - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A base rate only may be
paid without Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits FTB Part A base rate
only may be paid without Energy Supplement (pa)

Income limits - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A may not be paid without
Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A - income limits FTB Part A may not be
paid without Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - rates (pf)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B (pf)

Energy Supplement (pf) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - Energy Supplement (pf)

Income test - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - income test (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - rates with/without supplement (pa)

Rates - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - with/without supplement (pa)

Energy Supplement (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B - Energy Supplement (pa)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B Supplement (pa)

Supplement (pa) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part B

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Advance

Advance - Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Stillborn Baby Payment (SBP) - income test

Income test - Stillborn Baby Payment (SBP)

Paid Parental Leave - income limits

Income limits - Paid Parental Leave

Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA) - Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Family Tax Benefit (FTB) - Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA)

Other

Parental Leave Pay (PPL) - rates

Rates - Parental Leave Pay (PPL)

Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS)

Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA)

Maintenance Income Test Reducible Amount (MRA)

Dad and Partner Pay (DAP) - rates

Rates - Dad and Partner Pay (DAP)

Child Care

Child Care Subsidy - income thresholds, annual subsidy cap and hourly
rate caps

Income threshold - Child Care Subsidy

Annual subsidy cap - Child Care Subsidy

Hourly rate cap – Child Care Subsidy

Pre 2 July 2018 care

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - rates (per hour/week)

Rates (per hour/week) - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - income threshold

Income threshold - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - multiple child loading

Multiple child loading - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Child Care Benefit (CCB) - income limits

Income limits - Child Care Benefit (CCB)

Child Care Rebate (CCR)

JET Child Care fee assistance (JETCCFA)

Child Care fee assistance - JET Child Care fee assistance (JETCCFA)

Pensions

Wife Pension - JobSeeker Payment transitional rate

Pension Advance rates

Rates - Pension Advance

Advance rates - Pension

Pension rates - Energy Supplement

Energy Supplement - pension rates

Pension Transitional rates - Energy Supplement

Energy Supplement - Pension Transitional rates

Pension Supplement rates - Basic amount

Pension Supplement rates - Minimum amount

Pension Supplement rates – Remaining amount

Pension Supplement rates - Basic amount (Transitional)

Pension Supplement rates - Minimum amount (Transitional)

Rates - Pension Supplement - Basic amount

Rates - Pension Supplement - Minimum amount

Rates – Pension Supplement – Remaining amount

Rates - Pension Supplement - Basic amount (Transitional)

Rates - Pension Supplement - Minimum amount (Transitional)

Income free area - Pension

Disqualifying income limits - Pension

Income free area (Transitional) - Pension

Disqualifying income limits (Transitional) - Pension

Assets free areas - Pension

Disqualifying assets limits - Pension

Disqualifying assets limits (Transitional) - Pension

Pension - income free area

Pension - disqualifying income limits

Pension - income free area (Transitional)

Pension - disqualifying income limits (Transitional)

Pension - assets free areas

Pension - disqualifying assets limits

Pension - disqualifying assets limits (Transitional)

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - rates

Rates - Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth)

Energy Supplement - Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth)

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - Energy Supplement

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - income limits

Income limits - Disability Support Pension (DSP (youth)

Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth) - asset limits

Asset limits - Disability Support Pension (DSP) (youth)

Pension Bonus Scheme (PBS)

Pension Supplement component for Pension Bonus

Pension Bonus - Pension Supplement component

Pension - deeming thresholds

Deeming thresholds - Pension

Primary Production Attribution thresholds - Pension

Pension - Primary Production Attribution thresholds

Carer Payment (CP) - Care Receiver Income and Asset Limits

Care Receiver Income and Asset Limits - Carer Payment (CP)

Pension rates – fortnightly amounts

Other

Pension customer income limits - Allowance customer

Allowance

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) transitional rate (formerly Wife Pension)

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - rates

Widow Allowance (WA) - rates

Partner Allowance (PA) - rates

Sickness Allowance (SA) - rates

Rates – JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance (WA), Partner Allowance
(PA), Sickness Allowance (SA)

Energy Supplement – JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance (WA),
Partner Allowance (PA), Sickness Allowance (SA)

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - Energy Supplement

Widow Allowance (WA) - Energy Supplement

Partner Allowance (PA) - Energy Supplement

Sickness Allowance (SA) - Energy Supplement

Allowance Supplement amount – JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance
(WA), Partner Allowance (PA), Sickness Allowance (SA): over Age Pension
age

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

Widow Allowance (WA) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

Partner Allowance (PA) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

Sickness Allowance (SA) - Allowance Supplement amount (over Age Pension
age)

Youth Allowance (YA) - rates (incl. special Rate and YDS)

Rates - Youth Allowance (incl. special Rate and YDS)

Energy Supplement - Youth Allowance (YA) rates

Youth Allowance (YA) rates - Energy Supplement

Austudy - rates (incl. special rates and over Age Pension age)

Rates - Austudy (incl. special rates and over Age Pension age)

Energy Supplement - Austudy

Austudy - Energy Supplement

Income test cut-offs – JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Widow Allowance (WA),
Partner Allowance (PA), Sickness Allowance (SA)

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) - income test cut-offs

Widow Allowance (WA) - income test cut-offs

Partner Allowance (PA) - income test cut-offs

Sickness Allowance (SA) - income test cut-offs

Income test cut-offs - Austudy

Austudy - income test cut-offs

Youth Allowance (YA) - Personal Income Test

Personal Income Test - Youth Allowance (YA)

Parental Income Test (PIT) - Youth Allowance (YA)

Youth Allowance (YA) - Parental Income Test (PIT)

Maintenance income free area - Allowances

Allowances - Maintenance income free area

Assets test - Allowance (Independent)

Allowance (Independent) - assets test

Allowances - Personal Income Test thresholds

Austudy - Personal Income Test thresholds

Personal Income Test thresholds - Allowances and Austudy

Income Test thresholds - Allowances and Austudy

Student Start-up Loan (SSL)

Student Relocation Scholarship (RS)

Parenting Payment (PP) - rates

Rates - Parenting Payment (PP)

Energy Supplement - Parenting Payment (PP)

Parenting Payment (PP) - Energy Supplement

Income test - Parenting Payment (PP)

Parenting Payment (PP) - income test

Maintenance Income Free Area (MIFA) - Allowance customers

Other

Allowance customer income limits - pension partner

Income limits Allowance customer - pension partner

Allowance income and assets tests

ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY - Living Allowance

Living Allowance - ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY - Energy Supplement without Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

Energy Supplement - ABSTUDY without Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

Energy Supplement - ABSTUDY with Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

ABSTUDY - Energy Supplement with Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

ABSTUDY - Means tests

ABSTUDY - Masters and Doctorate Allowance

ABSTUDY - Incidentals Allowance

ABSTUDY - Additional Incidentals Allowance

ABSTUDY - School Fees Allowance Group 2 (Boarding)

ABSTUDY - Supplementary Allowances

Supplementary Allowances - ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY - Relocation Scholarship (RS)

ABSTUDY - Student Start-up Payments

ABSTUDY - Education Provider Administration and Audit costs

ABSTUDY - Boarding School Scholarship Approval Threshold

Boarding School Scholarship Approval Threshold - ABSTUDY

Means tests - ABSTUDY

Masters and Doctorate Allowance - ABSTUDY

Incidentals Allowance - ABSTUDY

Additional Incidentals Allowance - ABSTUDY

School Fees Allowance Group 2 (Boarding) - ABSTUDY

Relocation Scholarship (RS) - ABSTUDY

Student Start-up Payments - ABSTUDY

Education Provider Administration and Audit costs - ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY - Relocation Allowance

Relocation Allowance - ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY - Partner Income Test

ABSTUDY - Personal Income Test

ABSTUDY - Parental Income Test

Partner Income Test - ABSTUDY

Personal Income Test - ABSTUDY

Parental Income Test - ABSTUDY

Other

School term allowance - four instalments - ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY School term allowance - four instalments

Rates - ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY- rates

Rent

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the Social Security Act 1991
(SS Act)

Social Security Act 1991 - Rent Assistance rates for payments under the
Social Security Act 1991 (SS Act)

Rent Assistance rates for payments under the A New Tax System (Family
Assistance) Act 1999

Family Assistance - Rent Assistance rates for payments under the A New
Tax System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Rent Assistance - Default minimum Rent Assistance amounts for shared
care situations

Shared care situations - Default minimum Rent Assistance amounts for
shared care situations

Rent Assistance - Annual Rent Assistance rates under the A New Tax
System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Family Assistance - Annual Rent Assistance rates under the A New Tax
System (Family Assistance) Act 1999

Rent Assistance - Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for shared
care situations

Shared care situations - Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for
shared care situations

Shared care situations - Default minimum annual Rent Assistant rates for
shared care situations

ABSTUDY – Rent Assistance

Rent Assistance – ABSTUDY

Farm Household Allowance – Rent Assistance

Rent Assistance – Farm Household Allowance

Others

Pharmaceutical Allowance (PhA)

Telephone Allowance (TAL)

Energy Supplement - Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC)

Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) - Energy Supplement

Utilities Allowance (UA)

Mobility Allowance (MOB)

Carer Allowance (CA)

Carer Allowance (CA) – Adjusted Taxable Income Test Threshold

Adjusted Taxable Income Test Threshold – Carer Allowance (CA)

Additional child amounts

Child earning limits - permissible limits

Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) - taxable income limits

Double Orphan Pension (DOP) - basic rate

Essential Medical Equipment Payment (EMEP)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - allowances, limits and income
tests

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Basic Boarding Allowance (BA)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Additional Boarding Allowance
(ABA)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Second Home Allowance (pa/pf)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Distance Education Allowance
(DED)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Parental Income Test (PIT)

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) - Maintenance Income Test (MIT)

Allowances, limits and income tests - Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC)

Basic Boarding Allowance (BA) - Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Additional Boarding Allowance (ABA) - Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC)

Second Home Allowance (pa/pf) - Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Distance Education Allowance (DED) - Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC)

Education Entry Payment (EdEP)

Parental Income Test (PIT) - Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Maintenance Income Test (MIT) - Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Low Income Health Care Card (LIC) - income eligibility for claims and
renewals

Low Income Health Care Card (LIC) - income cut-offs for current card
holders

Income eligibility for claims and renewals - Low Income Health Care Card
(LIC)

Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS) payment

Income cut-offs for current card holders - Low Income Health Care Card
(LIC)

Factsheets

Coronavirus Supplement

Other

Incentive Allowance (IA) - rates

Carer Supplement

Child Disability Assistance Payment (CDAP)

Farm Household Allowance

Assurer income threshold

Income threshold - Assurer

Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Safety Net - thresholds

Thresholds - Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) Safety Net

Safety Net - Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) thresholds

Historical information

A guide to Australian Government payments (CO029)

Family Assistance Payment Rates (FPR006)

Remote Area Allowance

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
