
Job Seeker Classification Instrument (JSCI) 001-02050000

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

-   Background
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This document outlines what the JSCI is and how it supports job seekers.

On this Page:

Primary function of the JSCI

The JSCI is used to identify a job seeker's ability to find suitable
employment and determine the level of employment assistance they may
require. The job seeker is asked a series of questions regarding their
individual circumstances to determine their eligibility to access
employment services (for example from a jobactive provider or Intensive
Support-Transition to Work). The JSCI operates by allocating a score or
weighting against individual factors relating to a job seeker's risk of
long-term unemployment.

The Department of Education, Skills and Employment administers JSCI
policy and periodically reassesses these factors and their weighting.
The Services Australia requirement to accurately apply the JSCI is set
out in the Business Partnership Agreement (BPA) between Services
Australia and Department of Education, Skills and Employment.

The primary function of the JSCI is to determine a job seeker's
eligibility for services available through jobactive providers.

Application of the JSCI

The JSCI may be completed by:

the agency either during the job seeker's initial contact or when the
JSCI is re-run as a result of a change in circumstances. This is done as
part of the:

-   Participation Interview or
-   the standalone Participation workflow in Process Direct or
-   the standalone Looking for Work (LFW) workflow in Customer First

the job seeker, online as part of the new claim process and prior to the
Participation Interview

a jobactive or Transition to Work (TtW) provider, as part of the direct
registration process for a job seeker with no mutual obligation
requirements or for job seekers who have already commenced with them

a Time to Work Employment Service (TWES) provider, as part of the TWES
programme

The job seeker’s responses to JCSI questions are used to determine the
most appropriate referral based on answers relating to the 18 JSCI
factors. Service Officers consider any personal and sensitive issues
that may affect the job seeker. One important consideration is to
identify job seekers who are refugees that may have experienced torture
or trauma.

Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)

In some cases a further assessment will be required in addition to the
JSCI. This is known as an Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) and is
undertaken by an Assessor. This interview will further explore the
barriers faced with gaining employment and address the job seeker's
needs. It may also result in the allocation of an additional score to
the JSCI. The outcomes of the ESAt will also determine the customer's
suitability for other programs, including disability employment
assistance services such as:

-   Australian Disability Enterprises (ADE) and
-   Disability Employment Services (DES)

When a JSCI initiated ESAt is triggered, a JSR UPD activity is created
and will remain on the job seeker's record until an ESAt appointment is
booked. Until the ESAt is submitted the JSCI will remain unfinalised or
pending on the record preventing referral to an Employment Services
Provider, except for job seekers who are identified as Vulnerable Youth
(VY) or Vulnerable Youth (Student) (VY(S)). VY or VY(S) can be referred
to an Employment Services Provider for immediate access to employment
services even when the ESAt outcome is still pending.

Note: where an ESAt has been conducted as part of the Time to Work
Employment Service (TWES) programme another one does not need to be
completed unless there has been a change in circumstances that may
affect the result.

The Resources page contains a link to the Department of Education,
Skills and Employment website for information on the rationale behind
the factors that make up the JSCI.

Contents

Conducting a Job Seeker Classification Instrument (JSCI) interview

Questions in the Job Seeker Classification Instrument (JSCI)

Job Seeker Classification Instrument (JSCI) and short term
illness/incapacity

Job Seeker Classification Instrument (JSCI) factors

Job Seeker Classification Instrument (JSCI) factors for torture and
trauma

Requirement for a JSCI initiated Employment Services Assessment (ESAt)
as a result of an Employment Services Provider update

JSCI Initiated Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) flags

Related links

Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) and Job Capacity Assessment (JCA)

Employment assistance and Employment Services Providers

Disability employment assistance services and programs

Employment assistance for people with a disability

Participation Interview

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
