
Investigating a non-attendance failure 001-10070130

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document explains the policy and processes associated with
investigating non-attendance failures. A Participation Solutions Team
(PST)-skilled Service Officer is responsible for investigating and
determining non-attendance failures for Community Development Program
(CDP) job seekers.

Non-attendance failure

A non-attendance failure is generated when the Services Australia system
accepts a Provider Attendance Report (PAR) following non-attendance at a
compulsory Community Development Program (CDP) provider appointment that
was a connection requirement for a regular appointment booked by the
provider.

Non-attendance failures ensure that CDP job seekers who intentionally
fail to attend compulsory provider appointments have potential for a
financial penalty. A Non-attendance failure penalty can be applied to a
job seeker's participation payment if they do not attend without
reasonable excuse, or do not make prior contact and it was reasonable to
expect them to do so.

Providers have responsibility for re-engaging the CDP job seeker as part
of the Non-Attendance Report process.

Roles and responsibilities of investigating Service Officers

When investigating a non-attendance failure, a PST-skilled Service
Officer's responsibilities include:

confirming the validity of the failure

considering any information from the provider in relation to the
failure, this includes:

-   a change to the failure validity, or
-   further information that supports the assessment of reasonable
    excuse

establishing contact with the CDP job seeker

investigating the circumstances that led to the failure

providing the CDP job seeker with the opportunity to explain what
occurred and recording the reason that best summarises the CDP job
seeker's explanation for non-attendance at their requirement

assessing whether the CDP job seeker had a reasonable excuse for not
attending the appointment

assessing whether the CDP job seeker made prior contact to advise of an
inability to attend or any circumstances that made prior contact
unreasonable

making the decision to apply, or recording a decision not to apply, the
non-attendance failure

where there is an outstanding NAR, advising the CDP job seeker to
contact their provider after all required action has been taken by
Services Australia

Note: a PST-skilled Service Officer must consult with a PST-skilled
social worker where the job seeker presents with family and domestic
violence or has a current Family relationships/Domestic violence
circumstance recorded. See Accessing a PST-skilled social worker.

The investigation of the failure and the failure decision must be
documented using the Participation Compliance Hub in Process Direct.

The Resources page contains a link to the reasons for CDP job seeker
non-attendance.

Related links

Job Seeker Compliance Framework

Reviewing and validating Community Development Program (CDP) provider
Participation Reports

Roles and responsibilities for managing compliance with compulsory
requirements

Non-attendance at compulsory provider managed appointments

Compliance action initiated by Community Development Program (CDP)
providers

Establishing contact with the job seeker to discuss non-compliance or
potential barriers to compliance

Gathering information and weighing evidence to establish facts for a
compliance investigation

Assessing proper notification and reasonable notice

Assessing reasonable excuse for non-compliance with mutual obligation
requirements

Rejecting a compliance action

Sending free text to providers when compliance action finalised

Non-attendance failure penalties

Determining failure hierarchy when there are multiple failures

Calculating the effect of Job Seeker Compliance Framework failure
penalties on fortnightly instalments

Non-compliance with compulsory requirements - review and appeals

Effect of a compliance action on Income Management

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
