
Employment assistance for students moving from secondary to tertiary studies 001-02300010

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how students may contact Services Australia to
assist them to find work while they study. Although most full-time
students are not eligible to register with an Employment Services
Provider, there are some students who are able to register as a
volunteer.

Secondary studies completed

Customers who have completed their secondary school studies and have
applied to go on to tertiary studies are not considered to be full-time
students for the purposes of Employment Services Provider eligibility,
until their application has been approved by the tertiary institution.
However, they are still considered to be full-time students for the
purposes of income support.

These school leavers should be encouraged to directly register for
services as a Volunteer through their preferred Employment Services
Provider. While Services Australia can provide job seekers with general
information about local providers (as well as access to Self Service
Terminals), they cannot be registered as a volunteer on the Services
Australia system.

Enrolment not accepted

If the school leaver is not accepted into their chosen course, and they
apply for income support that is subject to mutual obligation
requirements, they can register as a Fully Eligible Participant job
seeker with Services Australia and their eligibility for income support
will be assessed.

Study not continuing

Secondary school leavers who do not intend resuming study at the
commencement of the next academic year who apply for income support that
is subject to mutual obligation requirements can be registered
immediately with Services Australia for employment services, and their
eligibility for income support as a job seeker will be assessed.

Remote location

If a student lives in a Department of Education, Skills and Employment
designated remote area, they are advised to attend a Community
Development Program (CDP) provider to determine eligibility for
Employment Assistance.

Related links

Self service terminals

Registering customer as a job seeker

Eligibility for Employment Services as a volunteer

Community Development Program (CDP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
