
Exempting a job seeker from their mutual obligation requirements when going overseas 001-09120040

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the circumstances in which a customer is able to
be exempted from mutual obligation or Participation Requirements if they
go overseas.

On this Page:

Parenting Payment (PP) including ParentsNext participants

PP can generally be paid outside Australia for up to six weeks. PP
customers including ParentsNext participants are automatically exempt
from any mutual obligation requirements or participation requirements
while they are payable outside Australia. If the customer is scheduled
to attend an interview while they are outside Australia, the interview
must be rescheduled for after their date of return to Australia.

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) and Youth Allowance (YA) job seeker

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) and Youth Allowance (YA) job seekers can
generally be paid outside Australia for a specific negotiated period
when the customer is:

-   Dealing with an acute family crisis such as death or serious illness
-   Attending legal proceedings (including custody cases) or adoption
    proceedings
-   Receiving eligible medical treatment of a kind which is not
    available in Australia
-   Attending an Australian Defence Force Reserves training camp
    overseas. Payment can be made for the length of the camp

If a customer has advised their overseas travel meets the initial
criteria for an approved temporary absence, the case must be referred to
Centrelink International Services (CIS) to assess entitlement and code
the departure. These situations will automatically exempt the customer
from mutual obligation requirements for the specific negotiated period
determined by CIS.

Job seeker registration

The customer's job seeker registration remains current, but they will be
suspended from Employment Provider Services when an exemption from
mutual obligation requirements is coded. They are still required to
attend an Employment Services Provider interview when required. However
if they do not attend, and it is due to the reason they have been
exempt, then this can be considered a reasonable excuse for not
attending.

Related links

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) customer going overseas

Youth Allowance (YA) customer going overseas

Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP) customer and/or child going overseas

Parenting Payment Single (PPS) customer and/or child going overseas

Overseas absence for eligible medical reasons

Overseas absences for acute family crisis

Overseas absences for humanitarian reasons

Overseas absences for Australian Defence Force Reserves

Restricted portability for payment during overseas absences where
customer has special circumstances

ParentsNext exits and exemptions

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
