
Approved Activities for mature age customers 001-09070140

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This document outlines approved activities that satisfy the mutual
obligation requirements for jobseekers who are in receipt of JobSeeker
Payment (JSP), Parenting Payment (PP) with mutual obligation
requirements and Special Benefit (SpB) Nominated Visa Holders (NVH - TPP
category only) who are aged 55 years or over.

Mutual obligation requirements

JSP jobseekers who are aged 55 years or over have the same standard job
search requirements as other JSP job seekers. However, there is
provision for these job seekers to undertake particular kinds of
voluntary work, suitable paid part-time work, self-employment or a
combination of these activities to fully meet their mutual obligation
requirements.

Note: if the job seeker is required to attend a 'base' or like place,
and is participating in a work-like activity for the duration of their
time on call, these hours may count towards their voluntary work hours.

If the job seeker is going about their daily life, without participating
in any work-like activity while on call, these hours cannot be counted
towards their voluntary work hours.

Job seekers aged 55-59

From 20 September 2018, a person who has reached 55 to 59 years
(inclusive) and is within the first 12 months of receipt of their
current income support payment (including suspension periods of up to 3
months) fully meets their mutual obligation requirements if they satisfy
1 of the following:

undertaking sufficient work for at least 30 hours per fortnight where
income is equal to or more than the national minimum wage

undertaking self-employment for at least 30 hours per fortnight with net
business income equal to or more than the national minimum wage

engaged for at least 30 hours per fortnight in:

-   paid work, including self-employment
-   a combination of paid work and approved voluntary work, at least 15
    hours of which must be paid work

After receiving their current income support payment for a 12 month
period, eligible job seekers aged 55-59 may fully satisfy their
requirements by undertaking 30 hours or more per fortnight of any
combination of approved unpaid voluntary work and suitable paid
work/self-employment, including solely through approved unpaid voluntary
work.

Job seekers aged 60+

A person who has reached 60+ years fully meets their mutual obligation
requirements if they satisfy 1 of the following:

engaged in approved unpaid voluntary work with an approved organisation
for at least 30 hours per fortnight

undertaking sufficient work for at least 30 hours per fortnight where
income is equal to or more than the national minimum wage

undertaking self-employment for at least 30 hours per fortnight with net
business income equal to or more than the national minimum wage

engaged for at least 30 hours per fortnight in a combination of:

-   approved unpaid voluntary work for an approved organisation, and
-   paid work, including self-employment

Job seekers who are principal carers or have been assessed as having a
partial capacity to work and are 55 or over, are also able to meet their
mutual obligation requirements if they are meeting the suitable
part-time work/voluntary work requirements.

Annual review of approved activity

JSP, PP and SpB (NVH) customers who are aged 55 years or over and
undertake paid work, voluntary work or combination of voluntary and paid
work as an approved activity, will be required to attend an annual
review of their participation in this activity with Services Australia.
If the job seeker does not attend this review, they may be subject to
compliance action.

Jobactive/Community Development Program (CDP)

JSP and PP job seekers aged 55 or over will be required to be registered
as Fully Eligible Participants (FEP) and be referred to a
jobactive/Community Development Program (CDP). If they are satisfying
their mutual obligation requirements by doing part-time work or approved
voluntary work or a combination of approved voluntary work/paid work for
at least 30 hours per fortnight and are Centrelink managed, they will
remain connected with their provider (that is, not exited) but will not
have any job search requirements.

However, after their initial appointment, these job seekers are not
required to attend appointments with their provider, unless the
appointment is specifically in relation to an offer of suitable
employment.

These job seekers will be suspended (not exited) from Employment
Provider Services whilst they are fully meeting their requirements and
be Centrelink managed job seekers.

JSP and PP job seekers aged 55 or over must accept suitable offers of
employment (either full time or an increase in hours) and all referrals
to job interviews, even where they are fully meeting their mutual
obligation requirements through approved voluntary work.

Mutual obligation requirements for Community Development Program (CDP) job seekers aged 55 years or over

For all CDP job seekers who are provider-managed, including job seekers
aged 55 years and over:

-   CDP providers consider each job seeker's assessed capacity and
    individual circumstances when negotiating job plans
-   minimum hourly requirements do not apply, and
-   there are no specific requirements for CDP job seekers according to
    their age group or job seeker category

See Community Development Program (CDP) for information on mutual
obligation requirements for job seekers in CDP.

Customer does not satisfy the mutual obligation requirements

If a mature aged customer over 55 does not satisfy their mutual
obligation requirements by undertaking 30 or more hours of paid work or
voluntary work (or a combination of paid/voluntary work) for 1 fortnight
and they do not have a reasonable excuse they must be immediately
reconnected with their provider. If they do have a reasonable excuse
they will not immediately be reconnected with their provider but will be
given 2 further consecutive fortnights to increase their hours above the
30 hours a fortnight threshold. If they do not restore their hours
within these 2 further consecutive fortnights, they will be considered
to be no longer fully meeting their requirements. They will then be
reconnected with their provider or if not already connected, referred to
an appropriate provider and be required to meet other mutual obligation
requirements.

Where a job seeker is a Centrelink managed job seeker they will be
interviewed by a Service Officer and required to negotiate a new Job
Plan.

Examples of reasonable excuse

Reasonable excuse could include such reasons as a sick child, a
cancelled shift, or a short term reduction in hours due to public
holidays, pupil-free days, failure of special disability related
transport, with an expectation that working hours will return to normal
in the next fortnight. Also note that reasonable excuse could be applied
to someone who does ongoing volunteer work for a community organisation
which closes down for the Christmas /New Year period.

The concession would not apply to someone whose voluntary work ceases or
reduces below 30 hours per fortnight for the foreseeable future. It is
also not intended to give someone time to find some other voluntary work
to make up the hours.

Coding approved activity

Where the job seeker meets the criteria to undertake voluntary work,
part-time work or self-employment (or a combination of these activities)
to fully meet their participation requirements, suitably skilled Service
Officers should refer the customer to jobactive/CDP to attend the
initial appointment. If not linked, but eligible for Services Australia
management, Service Officers can:

-   update the Job Plan
-   add the activity/activities to the customer's Job Plan, and
-   code details on the Activity and Exemption Summary (AEX) screen if
    the customer is provider or Services Australia managed

It is important the approved activity details in the Job Plan and the
AEX screen are updated at the same time (i.e. when the Service Officer
approves the activity) and the activity start and end dates match.

The Resources page contains links to information on Job Plans, the Local
Activities Database (LAD) for verifying approved volunteer
organisations, to the Department of Education, Skills and Employment
website and a Restart Programme Fact Sheet.

Related links

Approved activities for customers assessed as having a temporary reduced
work capacity (TRWC)

Approved activities for customers assessed as having a partial capacity
to work (PCW)

Job Plans

Mutual obligation requirement exemptions

Selection or allocation of a jobactive organisation

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
