
RapidConnect 001-02030000

-   Background
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines RapidConnect. RapidConnect is government
legislation and policy that applies only to claimants of Job Seeker
Payment (JSP) and Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker). RapidConnect
improves the chances of job seekers and early school leavers finding a
job or enrolling in a course of education or training, by rapidly
connecting them with an employment service after they contact Services
Australia about claiming JSP or YA.

RapidConnect

RapidConnect is a process that requires eligible unemployed people (job
seekers) to either agree to their Job Plan, if referred to the Workforce
Australia Online for Individuals or attend their first appointment, if
referred to a Workforce Australia Employment Services Provider, as soon
as possible.

Job seekers claiming JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Youth Allowance (YA)
(Job seeker) are referred directly to these services at their
Participation Interview and they are only payable once they have met
their RapidConnect requirements.

Job seekers who claim JSP or YA (Other) and are identified as having
limited barriers to employment may be subject to RapidConnect.

Most job seekers subject to RapidConnect requirements are referred to
Workforce Australia Online and must agree to their Job Plan online to
meet their RapidConnect requirements.

From 4 December 2021, jobseekers who are referred to online services
under RapidConnect provisions will need to complete their Career Profile
before they can agree to their Job Plan online. The career profile is a
brief summary of a job seeker's skills and employment history.

Job seekers who require a referral to an Employment Services Provider
must attend their appointment with their Employment Services Provider to
meet their RapidConnect requirements.

Identifying RapidConnect job seekers

The Participation Interview identifies JSP and YA job seekers who are
subject to RapidConnect requirements. During the Participation
Interview, job seekers subject to RapidConnect will be automatically
referred to the online service. If not automatically referred to the
online service, they will need to have a RapidConnect appointment booked
with an Employment Services Provider.

The Job Seeker RapidConnect (JMRC) screen displays the history of a job
seeker's RapidConnect status. This screen is also used for recording
reasons for manually exempting a job seeker from RapidConnect. To go to
the JMRC (RapidConnect) screen in Process Direct, staff key 'JMRC' in
the Super Key and select Enter.

RapidConnect appointments

Job seekers identified as being subject to RapidConnect and requiring a
referral to an Employment Services Provider will have an appointment
booked during the Participation Interview. RapidConnect appointments are
ideally booked within 2 working days (or up to a maximum of 14 working
days) of when the Participation Interview is conducted and the job
seeker is advised of the requirement to attend.

If a RapidConnect appointment is not available within 2 working days,
contact the relevant Employment Services Provider/s to arrange an
appointment to be made available.

-   Where an appointment is able to be made available within 2 working
    days and the job seeker attends this appointment, their payment will
    commence from the date of the appointment
-   Where appointments are made available within 2-14 working days, book
    the next available RapidConnect appointment. If the job seeker
    attends this appointment, their payment will be backdated to the
    date of their Participation Interview
-   Where appointments are made available within 15+ days, the job
    seeker will be automatically exempted from RapidConnect. Job seekers
    exempted from RapidConnect due to no appointment being available
    within 14 days, the job seeker must still attend an initial
    appointment with their Employment Services Provider, and the first
    available initial appointment should be booked. Their payment will
    be backdated to the date they submitted their claim

There are a number of factors that will impact the start date of JSP and
YA (Job seeker) claims, including timing of the appointment,
rescheduling of appointments, and if the job seeker has any additional
waiting or preclusion periods. See Calculating the start day general
rule for further information on RapidConnect appointment impacts on
claim backdating.

Rescheduling and Rebooking RapidConnect appointments

Service Officers and Employment Services Providers can reschedule the
RapidConnect appointment as long as the appointment is still in the
future and a result has not been recorded for that appointment.

Where an appointment date has passed and/or an appointment result has
been entered, then the appointment can no longer be rescheduled, the
appointment must be rebooked.

See Processes for RapidConnect appointments for further information.

RapidConnect payability

Once a job seeker is advised of their RapidConnect requirements at their
Participation Interview, they have 28 days in which to meet their
requirements. The day the Participation Interview is conducted is
counted as Day Zero, with Day One being the following day.

If referred to the online service, once their RapidConnect requirements
have been met, they are generally payable from the date they submitted
their claim. Subject to any waiting periods and qualification
requirements being met.

If referred to an Employment Services Provider, once their RapidConnect
requirements have been met, they are generally payable from the date
they attended their first appointment with their provider. Their payment
start date is not backdated to their claim submission date. Subject to
any waiting periods and qualification requirements being met.

There are a number of factors that may affect the RapidConnect
payability start date, refer to Calculating the start day general rule
for further information.

The RapidConnect payability start date is displayed on the RapidConnect
(JMRC) screen in Process Direct. To go to the JMRC (RapidConnect)
screen, staff key 'JMRC' in the Super Key and select Enter.

If the job seeker has not met their RapidConnect requirements within 28
days of the Participation Interview, the income support claim is
rejected or cancelled, (reason code FCJ 'Failed to connect with
Employment Providers'). If the job seeker has lodged their first
Reporting Statement (SU19) form, their payment will cancel, otherwise
the claim will reject.

See Processes for RapidConnect appointments for relevant procedures.

RapidConnect exemptions

Job seekers claiming JSP or YA (Job seeker) who are not able to connect
quickly with an Employment Services Provider will still have access to
income support.

Some job seekers, not within the RapidConnect target group, will be
referred to a provider for assistance at the earliest possible contact
once their circumstances have changed, and once a Job Capacity
Assessment (JCA) or Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) has been
completed, if required.

Refer to RapidConnect exemptions for further information about
RapidConnect exemptions.

Parenting Payment (PP) job seekers

PP customers with mutual obligation requirements are not subject to
RapidConnect but are required to be linked to an Employment Services
Provider and have the initial appointment booked with an appropriate
Employment Services Provider if they are not already satisfying their
participation requirements.

Contents

Processes for RapidConnect appointments

RapidConnect exemptions

Related links

Selection or allocation of a Workforce Australia Employment Services
Provider

Online Diary

Negotiating Job Plans

Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) Referral

Intensive Support - Transition to Work (TtW)

Participation Interview

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
