-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the policy and processes associated with
investigating and making a decision regarding a connection failure under
the Job Seeker Compliance Framework. Participation Solutions Team
(PST)-skilled Service Officers with PFDEC/WNPPD access are responsible
for the connection failure decision making process.

Connection failures

A connection failure is generated when a Community Development Program
(CDP) job seeker fails to comply with a connection requirement such as:

-   attend an appointment their CDP provider has booked with a third
    party
-   enter into a Job Plan with their CDP provider, or
-   provide sufficient job search efforts to their CDP provider

Connection failures ensure CDP job seekers comply with their mutual
obligation requirements, including job search and entering into a Job
Plan with their CDP provider.

Roles and responsibilities of PST-skilled Service Officers

A PST-skilled Service Officer who conducts the failure investigation is
responsible for:

confirming the validity of the failure

establishing contact with the CDP job seeker when the failure is valid

re-engaging the CDP job seeker if appropriate

investigating the circumstances that led to the failure

providing the CDP job seeker with the opportunity to explain what
occurred and gathering information and weighing evidence to establish
the facts relevant to the case

identifying barriers and personal factors that directly and
significantly impact the CDP job seeker's capacity to comply with the
requirement

recording the investigation appropriately in the Participation
Compliance Hub workflow in Process Direct, recording the reason that
best summarises the CDP job seeker's explanation for non-compliance with
their requirement

assessing whether the CDP job seeker had a reasonable excuse for
non-compliance

assessing whether the CDP job seeker made prior contact to advise of an
ability to attend an appointment or any circumstances that prevented
this contact from occurring

making the decision to apply or reject the connection failure

recording the decision in the Compliance Investigation workflow

when a payment suspension (participation) 'DNA participation
appointment' (APA) has been imposed, restoring the payment if:

-   the CDP job seeker has agreed to re-engage
-   it is determined re-engagement is not required
-   the failure is rejected before it is discussed with the CDP job
    seeker

ensuring payment remains suspended or a suspension is imposed when the
CDP job seeker refuses to re-engage

Note: a PST-skilled Service Officer must consult with a PST-skilled
social worker where the job seeker presents with family and domestic
violence or has a current Family relationships/Domestic violence
circumstance recorded. See Accessing a PST-Skilled social worker.

The investigation of the failure and the failure decision must be
documented in the Compliance Investigation workflow.

The Resources page contains links to re-engagement requirements and
codes as well as the reasons for Community Development Program (CDP) job
seeker non-attendance. It also contains a table outlining the different
types of connection failures.

Related links

Using participation suspensions to engage Community Development Program
(CDP) job seekers with their requirements

Reviewing and validating Community Development Program (CDP) Provider
Reports

Refusing to enter into a Job Plan or Participation Plan

Not meeting job search requirements

Establishing contact with the job seeker to discuss non-compliance or
potential barriers to compliance

Re-engaging to a Community Development Program (CDP) provider

Gathering and assessing evidence for a job seeker compliance
investigation

Assessing reasonable excuse for non-compliance with mutual obligation
requirements

Rejecting a compliance action

Non-compliance with compulsory requirements - review and appeals

Determining failure hierarchy when there are multiple failures

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
