
Parenting Payment (PP) 001-05000000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document contains information about the 2 types of Parenting
Payment (PP) available to a customer - Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP)
and Parenting Payment Single (PPS).

Government intent - PP

Parenting Payment is an income support payment paid to a principal carer
of a young child. It is assessed separately to family assistance
payments.

Only one parent or guardian can receive the payment.

There are 2 different payment rates:

-   Parenting Payment (single) for single parents
-   Parenting Payment (partnered) for partnered parents

PP overview

The applicable PP rate depends on a person's relationship status and age
of the dependent child in their care.

PPS is for parents or guardians who are single and the principal carer
of a child under 8

PPP is for parents or guardians who are partnered and the principal
carer of a child under 6

-   PPP is affected by both customer and partner income
-   PPP may be paid at a higher rate where the PP customer is a member
    of an illness separated couple, respite care couple or has a partner
    in gaol

Only one parent or guardian can be considered the principal carer and
receive PP

PP is assessed and paid separately to family assistance payments

Customers may be eligible to receive other payments in addition to PP
(for example, family assistance payments, Paid Parental Leave,
supplementary payments/benefits)

PP is considered a taxable income

Requirement for a claim

[] Customers can claim PP online at any time without first contacting
Services Australia. Customers can access the Payment and Service Finder
on the Services Australia Website to determine if PP is the most
appropriate service offer and start their claim.

If the customer is unable or unsuitable to claim online, compete the
Assisted Customer Claim (ACC) workflow.

The Resources page contains links Parenting Payment information, the
Payment and Service Finder and forms on the Services Australia website.

Contents

Eligibility for Parenting Payment (PP)

Mutual obligations requirements for principal carers

Claiming Parenting Payment (PP)

Shared care for social security payments

Rates of Parenting Payment (PP)

Assessment of income and assets for Parenting Payment (PP)

Employment assistance for Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Subsidy
(CCS) and Parenting Payment (PP) customers

Change of circumstance for Parenting Payment (PP)

Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP) customer and/or child going overseas

Parenting Payment Single (PPS) customer and/or child going overseas

Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Subsidy (CCS) and Paid Parental
Leave scheme customer/child going overseas

Parenting Payment (PP) letters

Reviewing mutual obligation requirements for the principal carer of a
dependent child

Parenting Payment (PP) Service Updates

Related links

Processing Parenting Payment (PP) claims

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
