
Transfer to Youth Allowance (YA) (Job seeker) from another payment 001-04010060

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about transfers from another payment
to Youth Allowance (YA) (Job seeker) when a customer receiving a payment
finds they are qualified and then make a claim for YA. The same payday
code is maintained for transfers.

Transfer process

All payment transfers for YA (Job seeker) are actioned using the
Assisted Customer Claims (ACC) workflow. This determines the appropriate
employment assistance for the job seeker and will connect them with a
jobactive provider where required. The level of job readiness will
determine whether an appointment with a specialist officer is required.

As part of this process the customer will need to:

-   attend a new claim appointment if required
-   provide identity documents as required
-   complete Reporting Statement (SU019) forms to receive payments if YA
    job seeker
-   provide evidence of completion of Year 12 (or Equivalent
    qualification) or a Certificate III or higher. This may include a
    Year 12 certificate, a Certificate III, a letter from the school or
    institution, other appropriate evidence or where other evidence is
    not available, a statutory declaration detailing the name of the
    course, date completed, institution name and contact details

If a customer has had working credits or a Student Income Bank (SIB) in
the last 12 months, they may be eligible to transfer or restore their
previous working credits or SIB balance.

Transfer from Disability Support Pension (DSP) to YA (Job seeker)

Customers may transfer from DSP to YA (Job seeker) if their payment of
DSP has been suspended due to the customer commencing work (that is,
they no longer have a continuing inability to work), or they have been
assessed by an Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) as having a partial
capacity to work. These customers may be deemed to be unemployed and
thus considered to be an eligible job seeker if:

-   the work is suitable work (taking into account their capacity to
    work, as determined by an ESAt)
-   the hours worked is less than 70 hours per fortnight, and
-   the income earned is less than the allowance income test

YA (Student/trainee) ceases studies

If a YA (Student) customer ceases full-time study they must notify
Services Australia and register as a job seeker within 14 days. Failure
to notify cessation of study within 14 days will result in cancellation
of YA from Study End Date plus one day. Payment of YA (Job seeker) may
only commence from the date a fully completed claim and all supporting
documentation is supplied and the ACC initiated. A debt may be generated
for students who fail to notify cessation of studies. There is no change
to policy or process for customers advising an intention to study.

Note: cessation of study must be updated in the customer's record prior
to completion of the ACC.

See Student to job seeker transfers.

RapidConnect and start date

Job seeker's subject to RapidConnect have 14 days from the date they are
advised of their RapidConnect requirements at the Participation
Interview to attend the appointment with their Employment Services
Provider. The day the Participation Interview is counted as Day Zero,
with Day One being the following day.

In most cases, attendance at the first provider appointment is used to
determine the start date of the job seeker's income support payment,
subject to any waiting periods and qualification requirements being met.

There are a number of factors that may impact the RapidConnect
payability start date, refer to Calculating the start day general rule
for further information. The RapidConnect payability start date is
displayed on the NSS Continuity dates (NCD) screen.

If after 29 days the job seeker has not attended their initial
appointment the claim will be automatically rejected.

When a claim may not be required

The Chief Executive Officer of Services Australia may determine that a
customer be transferred from any income support payment to any other
income support payment without making a claim if:

-   qualification for the two payments is either overlapping or
    continuous, and
-   nothing prevents the transfer being effected by the claimant and
    then being granted and paid the second payment over the same time
    frame

ACC must be run if the customer is transferring from another income
support payment type to YA as a job seeker.

The Resources page contains links to relevant forms and a link to Office
Locator.

Related links

Processing Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker) claims

Confirming a customer's identity

Unreasonable to live at home (UTLAH) initial contact for Youth Allowance
(YA), Disability Support Pension (DSP), Special Benefit (SpB) or
Tertiary Access Payment (TAP)

Mutual obligation requirements for Youth Allowance job seekers under 22
years of age who have not completed Year 12 or an equivalent level of
education (Certificate III or higher) qualification

Student to job seeker transfers

Viewing and processing online and assisted customer claims

Rapid Connect

Processes for Rapid Connect appointments

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
