
Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy (YBWS) 26 Week Suspension Period 001-17030800

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document explains the processes about the Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy
(YBWS) 26 week suspension period.

YBWS initiative

Wage subsidies are available through jobactive or Transition to Work
(TTW) providers for employers who hire eligible job seekers. A job
seeker under the age of 25 and in receipt of Youth Allowance (YA) or
JobSeeker Payment (JSP) may be eligible to be placed in the YBWS
initiative by their jobactive or TTW provider.

Job seekers participating in the Community Development Program (CDP) or
with Disability Employment Services (DES) are excluded from this
initiative.

YBWS 26 Week Suspension Period

Where a young job seeker is placed with an employer as part of the YBWS
initiative, they become eligible for a 26 week suspension period. This
suspension period is in place so that if at any time during the 26 week
period, the job seeker ceases their employment through no fault of their
own, their income support payment can be restored.

If a job seeker ceases employment through fault of their own, their
income support payment cannot be restored. The income support payment is
to be cancelled and the job seeker is to be told they have to reclaim
and may be subject to an unemployment preclusion period if an
unemployment failure has been committed.

The YBWS suspension period will apply where a job seeker:

is employed under the YBWS initiative, and

has completed the 6 fortnight employment income nil rate period or if
they cease to qualify for JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Youth Allowance
(YA) for an employment related reason. For example:

-   commence full-time employment
-   have used all their working credit

Note: job seekers may be also be employed as casual or part-time under
YBS. These job seekers may not be paid enough employment income to
reduce their income support payment to nil and therefore may not be
placed in the 26 week suspension period and will continue to receive
income support payments.

At the end of the 26 weeks suspension period, the job seeker's income
support payment will cancel. Where a job seeker wants to return to
income support payments outside of the 26 week suspension period, they
will need to reclaim.

Customer on leave without pay and has a job to return to

Customers on leave without pay for a period of time can have their
payment restored if they are able to satisfy mutual obligation
requirements including looking for work for the period they are on
leave. If a customer indicates they are not willing to look for work
during the leave period the payment should be cancelled as they are no
longer considered to be unemployed and have lost qualification as a job
seeker.

Reporting requirements

Job seekers will not need to report during the YBWS 26 week suspension
period. If a job seeker tries to report via self service during the YBWS
26 week suspension period they will receive an auto-message advising
they do not need to report.

Job seekers must continue to report until the suspension period starts,
to make sure they are able to access 6 fortnights at nil rate and use
available working credit balance. Failure to report may result in the
suspension commencing from the date they were last paid.

Employment income nil rate period

Job seekers employed under the YBWS initiative will be able to access
the Employment income nil rate period as per existing process. Job
seekers will need to continue to report until the suspension period
starts to make sure they are able to access 6 fortnights at nil rate.

Working Credit

Job seekers declaring income from employment under YBWS are able to use
their existing Working Credit balance to reduce the impact on their
affected income. This may potentially delay the commencement of the 6
fortnight nil rate payment period.

Job seekers will need to continue to report until the suspension period
starts to make sure they are able to use their available Working Credit
balance.

Any remaining Working Credit balance available at the time a job seeker
begins the YBWS 26 week suspension period will be available to be used
should their payment be restored during the 26 week suspension period.

A job seeker will not accrue Working Credits during the 26 week
suspension period.

Mutual obligation requirements

During the YBWS 26 week suspension period, the job seeker will not have
mutual obligation requirements and will be suspended from all servicing
(for example, will not need to attend provider appointments).

Leave payments

Any leave or redundancy payments received on termination of employment
are to be assessed under the existing Income Maintenance Period rules.

Concession cards

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) and Youth Allowance (YA) job seekers will retain
their Health Care Card (HCC) or Pensioner Concession Card (PCC) during
an employment income nil rate period.

JSP and YA job seekers may continue to be qualified for their concession
card even after their payment has ceased. For more information, see
Extended entitlement to Concession Cards.

JSP and YA job seekers serving the YBWS 26 week suspension period who
have their payments restored, will have their concession card
entitlement auto-restored.

Income managed job seekers

Income managed job seekers will be treated as being on income support
payments during the YBWS 26 week suspension period and continue to be
income managed.

Mobility Allowance

Job seekers can continue to receive Mobility Allowance (MOB) during the
YBWS 26 week suspension period. A job seeker's MOB entitlement will be
automatically reassessed when they enter the suspension period to
determine if they continue to meet the MOB eligibility.

Other payments, supplements and allowances

Where the job seeker is in the YBWS 26 week suspension period, they will
be treated as if they are 'cancelled and OFF income support' for all
other supplements, allowances and other payments including families
payments Rent Assistance (RA), and rate for payment for partners.

Where the job seeker is partnered and their partner is in receipt of
rent assistance, calculation of partner RA will be determined as though
the job seeker is no longer in receipt of an income support payment.

Where the job seeker is partnered and their partner is in receipt of an
income support payment, then the partner income test is to be determined
as though the job seeker who is in the YBWS 26 week suspension period is
no longer in receipt of an income support payment.

During the YBWS 26 week suspension period, job seekers will lose
eligibility to ACCS (Transition to work).

The Resources page contains links to additional information on the Youth
Bonus Wage Subsidy (YBWS) initiative managed by jobactive, Transition to
Work (TTW) and the Department of Education, Skills and Employment. It
also contains a table with scenarios to assist Service Officers to
understand and apply the YBWS 26 week suspension period.

Related links

Working Credit

Employment income nil rate period

Participation Summary screen

BasicsCard

Income Management

Employment Separation Certificate (SU1)

Unemployment due to a voluntary act or misconduct

Processing Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker) claims

Income Maintenance Period (IMP)

Qualification for payment of Rent Assistance (RA)

Restoration of JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Youth Allowance (job seeker) and
Special Benefit (SpB)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
