
Quarterly Participation Interviews for Partial Capacity to Work and Temporary Reduced Work Capacity (0-7 or 8-14 hours per week) job seekers 001-09070190

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to manage compulsory Quarterly Participation
Interviews (QTI activity type) for job seekers assessed as having a
Partial Capacity to Work (PCW) or a Temporary Reduced Work Capacity
(TRWC) of either 0-7 or 8-14 hours per week.

Purpose of the QTI

The purpose of the QTI is to ensure job seekers remain engaged with
Services Australia and are aware of voluntary participation options.
These interviews are conducted every 12 weeks.

Job seekers with a QTI requirement are still required to report and
should be encouraged to use [] self service options (online accounts,
Express Plus Mobile Apps and phone self service) to complete their
report. They can also report in person at a service centre or submit
their report in writing (SU19 form).

Exemption from QTI

Job seekers do not require a QTI if they have a current exemption from
their mutual obligation requirements. This includes job seekers granted
a temporary incapacity exemption because they have lodged a medical
certificate and their Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) confirms
that they have a TRWC of 0-7 hours per week and are unable to
participate in a suitable activity.

A job seeker will be required to attend a QTI if they have a TRWC of 0-7
hours per week and cannot be granted a temporary incapacity exemption
for any reason, or if they do have a temporary incapacity exemption and
it expires while they still have a TRWC of 0-7 hours per week.

PCW job seekers

A job seeker has a PCW of less than 15 hours per week if both their
current and future work capacity with intervention (as assessed in an
ESAt) is less than 15 hours per week.

Job seekers with a PCW of 15-29 hours per week are not required to
attend a QTI, unless they also have a TRWC of less than 15 hours per
week for longer than 12 weeks.

For more information about requirements for all job seekers with a PCW,
see Job seekers with a partial capacity to work or a temporary reduced
work capacity.

Requirement to attend a QTI

Job seekers with mutual obligation requirements are required to attend
QTIs every 12 weeks if they have an assessed work capacity of:

-   PCW of 0-7 or 8-14 hours per week, or
-   TRWC of 0-7 or 8-14 hours per week that extends beyond 12 weeks

The criteria includes Centrelink managed job seekers living in a
designated Community Development Program (CDP) area. If the job seeker
fails to attend the appointment, their payment should be suspended and
be prompted to make contact with the agency.

The QTI requirement must be coded on the job seeker's Activity and
Exemption Summary (AEX) screen. The system will auto populate the Job
Plan with the following Job Plan item:

-   I will attend all appointments made for me. If I am unable to attend
    an appointment I will advise Centrelink before my appointment time

QTI requirements apply to all job seekers with a PCW or TRWC 0-14 hours
per week who are not fully meeting their requirements through paid
employment. A job seeker cannot end their QTI requirement early because
they wish to be connected to a Workforce Australia, CDP or Disability
Employment Services (DES) Provider. These job seekers can volunteer to
participate in employment services. Note: job seekers assessed with a
TRWC 0-7 cannot volunteer with a DES Provider.

Note: job seekers with an assessed TRWC of 0-7 or 8-14 hours per week of
less than 12 weeks duration are not required to attend QTIs. They are
however still required to report and to attend compulsory Services
Australia interviews when requested. If the TRWC is extended beyond 12
weeks, then QTIs will be required.

PCW or TRWC job seekers meeting mutual obligation requirements

If a PCW or TRWC job seeker is in paid employment or self-employment
within their assessed bandwidth, they are fully satisfying their
requirements, and will not be subject to QTI requirements. These job
seekers must have the appropriate Activity Type recorded on the AEX
screen, for example 'PTW' for paid work or 'SEL' for self-employment.

Triggering the QTI requirement

A job seeker can only be assessed as having a PCW or a TRWC recommended
by an Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) report.

When the ESAt report is accepted by the agency and the job seeker has
either a future work capacity with intervention or a TRWC of 0-14 hours
per week, the 12 week count for the QTI will automatically begin.

The ESAt report will still display with a status of 'submitted' for 28
days until the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations' system
auto-updates this to 'finalised'. This does not affect the commencement
of QTI requirements, as they are effective from the date the report was
accepted by Services Australia.

The duration of the 12 week count will not change, regardless of the job
seeker's recorded requirement type, until the PCW/TRWC 0-14 hours per
week status ends or changes. The requirement for the QTI is coded on the
job seeker's record and a Job Plan is negotiated with the job seeker.

When the ESAt report is accepted a Service Component will be 'STA'rted
and an appointment will be automatically booked. This initial
appointment is to ensure the Job Plan is updated with the compulsory
activity and requirement and QTI requirement coding is completed as soon
as possible after the acceptance of the ESAt report.

Circumstances when the QTI requirement will not trigger

The QTI will not be required if the job seeker either:

-   has an exemption from their mutual obligation requirements, such as
    temporarily incapacitated for all work
-   is in self-employment or paid employment that meets their mutual
    obligation requirements
-   does not have a current and valid assessment of their work capacity

If a current and valid assessment of the job seeker's work capacity is
not available, the customer must be referred for an ESAt.

QTI cycles

The start date for the first interview is 12 weeks after the ESAt report
acceptance date. Subsequent interviews will be held 12 weeks after the
previous interview. If an interview is rescheduled, or the job seeker
did not attend and then later the interview is completed, the next
interview is 12 weeks from the date of the original interview, not from
the date the interview was completed.

The 12 week count continues uninterrupted regardless of any delays,
rescheduling, or exemptions, therefore QTIs will be completed at 12, 24,
36 weeks etc. This start date also applies to TRWC job seekers who were
originally assessed as less than 12 weeks duration but have had their
period of reduced work capacity extended past 12 weeks.

Service Component 707 (Phone) or 708 (Face to Face) will automatically
start when the ESAt report is accepted. This Service Component is to
ensure the coding of the QTI requirement on the AEX screen and the
updating of the Job Plan occurs.

Service Component 710 (Phone) or 711 (Face to Face) will automatically
start once the AEX screen and Job Plan have been updated. This Service
Component is for the purposes of conducting the ongoing quarterly (12
weekly) interviews, to discuss the job seeker's circumstances, options
available to them and to ensure they understand their obligations.

While a QTI appointment type is booked for 2 weeks after the ESAt
acceptance date, this appointment does not form part of the QTI cycle.
This appointment is to negotiate a Job Plan to include QTI as an
activity. QTIs do not commence until 12 weeks after the ESAt acceptance.

Conducting the QTI

The Service Profiling Update Workflow is used to conduct the QTI
interview with the job seeker. The workflow provides a checklist of
appropriate actions and discussion topics. The Process page (Table 2,
Step 2) contains information about conducting the QTI.

Job Plan Item for QTI job seekers

The agency must negotiate a Job Plan with job seekers who have been
assessed as having a PCW or TRWC 0-14 hours per week.

The Job Plan will include the Job Plan item, 'I will attend all
appointments made for me. If I am unable to attend an appointment I will
advise Centrelink before my appointment time', where a job seeker has a
TRWC of 0-14 hours per week of 12 weeks or more or PCW of 0-14 hours per
week.

Note: the Job Plan item must not be removed from the Job Plan even if
the job seeker volunteers for employment services.

If a job seeker continues to participate in DES, the Job Plan should not
be updated by the agency, as the provider will update the Job Plan with
the QTI activity.

For job seekers with a TRWC of less than 12 weeks, the Job Plan must
include the attending all appointments Job Plan item, unless they are
satisfying requirements through paid work.

Related links

Job Plans

Negotiating Centrelink Managed Job Plans

28 day review of Job Plans

Altered processes and mutual obligation requirements for job seekers due
to coronavirus (COVID-19) response

Job seekers with a partial capacity to work or a temporary reduced work
capacity

Approved activities for customers assessed as having a partial capacity
to work (PCW)

Approved activities for customers assessed as having a temporary reduced
work capacity (TRWC)

Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) reports

Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) reports

Checking and actioning a Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) report

Checking and actioning Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) reports

Understanding Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) reports

Understanding Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) reports

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
