[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

If a child is in immediate danger or risk of harm you must act, and a
delegate must call 000.

For Services Australia social workers only.

This document outlines information about recording Vulnerable Welfare
Payment Recipient (VWPR) Detrimental Exclusion assessments in the Social
Work Recording Application (SWRA) in Process Direct and the Social Work
Information System (SWIS) in Customer First, for young people subject to
automatically triggered VWPR.

Eligibility for young people

Young people can be subject to automatic triggers for VWPR if they meet
one of the following eligibility triggers:

-   aged under 16 years and in receipt of a Special Benefit (SpB-USY)
-   16 years of age or over and in receipt of an independent rate of
    Youth Allowance, Disability Support Pension or ABSTUDY Living
    Allowance due to meeting the Unreasonable to Live at Home (UTLAH)
    status, or
-   under the age of 25 and in receipt of a Crisis Payment (CrP) within
    the last 13 weeks due to prison release

Detrimental Exclusion

Detrimental Exclusion temporarily excludes a young person from having
the VWPR Youth automatic triggers applied because the social worker has
determined that Income Management will be detrimental to the young
person's wellbeing.

The VWPR Detrimental Exclusion assessment is generally part of a complex
social work intervention requiring a number of contacts with customers
and third parties if appropriate.

There is no maximum number of contacts that can be recorded, and this
should reflect the complexity of the customer's circumstances as well as
the social work assistance provided.

Child safe framework

In line with a zero tolerance approach to harm of children, if a staff
member in the course of their duties observes behaviour, which raises
concerns about a child or young person's safety, Services Australia sets
out specific steps that must be taken. Follow the agency's Risk
Identification and Reporting model when identifying and responding to
child safety concerns. See Risk identification and management of threats
to the safety or welfare of a child for more information regarding this
model and the agency's commitment to the safety of children and young
people.

Related links

Determining and recording eligibility for Income Management as a
Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR) by a social worker

Reviewing, reconsidering and ending Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient
(VWPR) Notices by social workers

Recording referrals for customers on Income Management (non delegated)
in the Social Work Information System (SWIS)

Recording Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR)
reviews/reconsiderations in the Social Work Information System (SWIS)

Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR) Exclusion (Not Practicable
due to Support and Demonstrated Capacity) Assessments in the Social Work
Information System (SWIS)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
