
Social work assessments relating to customers experiencing family and domestic violence 003-12050000

-   Background

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

If a child is in immediate danger or risk of harm you must act, and a
delegate must call 000. If you have concerns about a child’s safety,
conduct the risk and referral process.

The Social work phone line is available during extended operating hours.
Use the Social Work Line or see Social work service referral for more
details.

This document outlines the assessment of a customer's situation in
regards to family and domestic violence by a Services Australia social
worker.

Social worker assessment

The assessment of family and domestic violence can be required for:

-   Customers who refuse or are reluctant to take action to receive
    child support due to fear of family and domestic violence, who have
    been referred to a social worker for a recommendation, or to
    exercise the delegation on the granting of an exemption. Assessment
    of these cases can also be undertaken jointly by the social worker
    and the Indigenous Specialist Officer (ISO)
-   Customers who advise that they and/or their family may experience
    family and domestic violence if they request their partner to lodge
    their income tax return/s, the social worker can assess the
    customer's situation to consider deferral of the Prohibition of
    Family Tax Benefit Instalment Payments (PIP) for up to 6 months
-   When an assuree applies for income support from Centrelink and
    claims that they are escaping a situation of family and domestic
    violence and that they are fearful of the assurer's reaction to them
    claiming payments, a social worker will discuss the situation with
    the assuree before any contact with the assurer is made

Note: if the customer has mutual obligation requirements, which are
impacted by family and domestic violence, see Exempting a job seeker
from mutual obligation requirements due to special circumstances.

Child safe framework

In line with a zero tolerance approach to harm of children, if a staff
member in the course of their duties observes behaviour, which raises
concerns about a child or young person's safety, Services Australia sets
out specific steps that must be taken. Follow the agencies Risk
Identification and Reporting model when identifying and responding to
child safety concerns. See Risk identification and management of threats
to the safety or welfare of a child for more information regarding this
model and the agencies commitment to the safety of children and young
people.

Contents

Conducting a social work child support exemption due to fear of family
and domestic violence or other circumstances

Determining a deferral of Prohibition of Family Tax Benefit Instalment
Payments (PIP) due to family and domestic violence

Determining if notification of a debt to an assurer can be delayed while
the assuree seeks refuge from family and domestic violence

Family and domestic violence

Risk identification and management of threats to the safety or welfare
of a child

Related links

Exempting a job seeker from mutual obligation requirements due to
special circumstances

Risk identification and management of threats to the safety or welfare
of a child

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
