
Special Benefit customer turns 16 003-08070030

-   Background

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines payments that may be available to an SpB customer
who has turned 16 and their SpB is to be cancelled.

Conditions for SpB

A customer may be granted SpB because they do not meet the minimum age
provisions for Youth Allowance (YA) as an independent person, until they
reach the minimum school leaving age. Once the customer turns 16 they
are no longer eligible for SpB and need to apply for YA, either as a job
seeker or a full-time student and satisfying the Activity Test for
students of mutual obligation requirements for job seekers.

Customers under 16 may be granted SpB for other reasons - these
customers may have continuing entitlement to SpB once they turn 16.
Customers granted the same visa subclass as their parent upon entry into
Australia - for example, children of subclass 309 and 820 spousal
visas - do not qualify for any income support payment aside from SpB.
For example homeless customers who hold a Temporary Protection Visa
(TPV), Return Pending Visa (RPV) or a Removal Pending Bridging Visa
(RPBV) would continue on SpB after turning 16 as they do not qualify for
another payment.

Visas ceased 9 August 2008

TPV subclasses 447, 451, 695 and 785 (for more on subclass 785, see
below) ceased to be issued after 9 August 2008. From this date, existing
TPV holders became eligible to apply for a new CD 851 Resolution of
Status visa. This is a permanent visa and has an exemption from the
Newly Arrived Resident's Waiting Period (NARWP). Once the TPV holder has
been issued with a Resolution of Status visa, they can apply for other
income support payments such as JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Youth Allowance
(YA), Parenting Payment (PP) etc. Customers who hold TPV subclasses 447,
451, 695 and 785 after 9 August 2008 will continue to hold their TPVs
until they expire or they are granted a CD 851 visa.

Reissuing 785 visas November 2013

From November 2013, Department of Home Affairs recommenced the issuing
of subclass 785 TPV visas.

Additional information can be found on Temporary Visa Holder not of
workforce age (TPA) and Under 16 years of age (USY) categories in
Special Benefit (SpB) categories.

Related links

Transfer to Youth Allowance (YA) (Job seeker) from another payment

Eligibility for Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker)

Eligibility for JobSeeker Payment (JSP)

Transfer to JobSeeker Payment (JSP) from another payment

Youth Allowance (YA) qualifications for students and Australian
Apprentices

Activity Test for Youth Allowance (YA) students

Activity Test for Youth Allowance (YA) trainees

Mutual obligation requirements for Special Benefit (SpB)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
