
Identifying and offering services to customers in crisis or needing special help 003-06010000

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

If you have concerns about a child’s safety, conduct the risk and
referral process.

This document outlines how to identify a customer who is in crisis or
needing special help.

Identifying a customer in crisis or needing special help

Where a customer who is in a crisis, or needs special assistance in
their current situation, makes contact with Services Australia to see
what assistance is available. It is the responsibility of the agency to
provide the right package of services to the customer in order to meet
their needs.

The Service Officer, by employing appropriate questioning techniques,
should encourage the customer to fully explain their situation. This
will assist in establishing what products and services would best suit
the customer's circumstances. The Service Officer, under duty of care
provisions, must ensure that the customer is aware of their entitlements
and obligations, the types of assistance and choices that are available
to them and where appropriate, make suitable referrals to internal and
external specialists.

The Resources page contains links to information for customers needing
special help in a crisis, and claim forms for Crisis Payment, Australian
Government Disaster Recovery Payment (AGDRP), and Exceptional
Circumstances Relief Payment (ECRP) for Farmers and Special Benefit
(SpB).

Contents

Initial contact from customers in crisis or needing special help

Helping customers in crisis or financial hardship claim family
assistance

Identifying customer vulnerability and risk issues

Customers talking about suicide or self-harm

Homelessness

Indigenous homelessness

Where customers are unable to provide a residential address

Homelessness Indicators

Review of Homelessness Indicator and referral for a wellbeing assessment

Related links

Family and domestic violence

Unsupported under 16 year olds to be immediately referred to a Services
Australia social worker

Communicating with victims of trauma and/or torture

Referral to external specialist/services

Emergency management events

Risk identification and management of threats to the safety or welfare
of a child

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
