
Raising Assurance of Support (AoS) debts 005-03060000

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process of raising AoS debts and the role of
the National AoS Team and service centres in this process. This includes
where liability lies for repayment of the AoS debt.

AoS

An AoS is a legally binding agreement signed by a person to financially
support someone who is applying to migrate to Australia on a specific
type of visa.

Recoverable payments

If the assurer/s cannot support the migrant (assuree) and a recoverable
income support payment is granted during the AoS period, then the
assurer is liable to repay the AoS debt. The AoS debt will begin
accumulating from the date the assuree is granted a recoverable income
support payment.

During the accumulation period, the debt will be 'Protected' and will
only become 'Determined' once it can be recovered. This is every 12
months or once the AoS period has expired.

Bank guarantee

Where an AoS is a mandatory requirement for entry into Australia, a bank
guarantee must be provided before the AoS arrangement can be accepted.
This bank guarantee will be cancelled at the end of the AoS period
unless a recoverable AoS debt has been incurred. See Assurance of
Support (AoS) bank guarantee and term deposit for further information.

Where an AoS debt has been incurred, Services Australia will draw on the
bank guarantee every 12 months to repay the AoS debt. This will cease
once the bank guarantee is depleted, or the AoS debt stops accruing.

If the AoS debt is less than the bank guarantee, the remaining funds
will be refunded to the assurer who lodged the bank guarantee at the end
of the AoS period.

If the debt exceeds the bank guarantee amount, normal recovery will take
place following recovery of the bank guarantee every 12 months until the
AoS period expires.

See Recovery of Assurance of Support (AoS) debts for further
information.

AoS debts

Services Australia will automatically raise all AoS debts for recovery
12 months from the date the assuree is first granted a payment, and
continue either until:

-   the end of the AoS period (after 2 or 10 years), or
-   until the assuree no longer receives a recoverable income support
    payment

Assurers may make repayments at any time during the period of accrual,
including voluntary repayments. Any AoS debt will be displayed on an
assurer's record as a 'Protected Debt' and a series of ongoing reviews,
forms and letters are generated for both assurers and assurees.

All AoS debts automatically begin accruing from the date a recoverable
income support payment is granted. The debt will have a status of
'Protected' until the accrual phase has ended (after 12 months).

The accrual phase is linked to the quarterly review activity on the
Future Activity List (FAL) screen for both assurers and assurees. Upon
completion of the Quarter 4 review activity an 'EXE' activity will
trigger on the assurer's record which will calculate the 12 month debt
total and issue a Statement of Account letter (Debt Statement).

An AoS debt will first be recovered from any lodged bank guarantee. If
the bank guarantee has been depleted then the assurer will be required
to repay any outstanding debts.

When making an unfavourable decision, see Advising verbally of an
unfavourable decision.

The References page contains links to Accountable Authority instructions
(AAI).

The Resources page contains links to AoS webforms, the National AoS team
and Office Locator.

Contents

Recovery of Assurance of Support (AoS) debts

Related links

Assessing and coding the Assurance of Support (AoS) Mod AR

Assurance of Support (AoS) bank guarantee and term deposit

Assuree makes a claim for an Assurance of Support (AoS) recoverable
payment

Assurance of Support (AoS) reviews

Recovery from mutually liable co-debtors

Categories of debt raised under subsection 1223(1)

Advising verbally of an unfavourable decision (CLK)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
