
Identifying if a customer who is a migrant, refugee or visitor is eligible for financial assistance 005-01010000

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information that identifies if a customer, who
has recently moved to Australia is eligible for financial assistance.

Service offer

If a customer who has recently moved to Australia to settle, or is from
a culturally and linguistically diverse (CALD) background makes contact
with Services Australia to see what assistance is available to them, it
is the responsibility of Services Australia to provide the right package
of services to the customer in order to meet their needs.

To achieve this, customers must be aware of the types of income support
payments or concession cards they may be eligible for, their rights and
obligations for payment, the types of programs and assistance that are
available in order to assist them in finding work or education and the
types of specialist services that they can be referred to and how they
may benefit from a referral to a specialist service.

Assessing eligibility

In order to assess a customer's eligibility to receive an income support
payment or concession card, Service Officers must assess a customer's
situation by asking a series of questions and checking the responses
against the qualification criteria of each payment and entitlement type,
or by running tools such as First Contact Concessions, Carers and
Seniors (FCCCS) to assess a customer's eligibility for assistance.

Once a customer's eligibility for payment and other assistance has been
established, customers will be advised of the eligibility criteria and
the claims process for payments, as well as the types of specialist
services that are offered by both internal and external specialists.
Such advice will be offered in a variety of languages via multilingual
fact sheets and forms, through Translating and Interpreter Services
(TIS) and the Multilingual Phone Service (MPS).

Residence requirements

To qualify for a social security benefit or pension a person, a customer
must be an Australian citizen, a permanent resident or a protected
Special Category Visa holder.

A small group of non-permanent residents who are temporary visa holders
(for example, Temporary Protection or Partner) qualify for Special
Benefit and ancillary payments such as Family Tax Benefit (FTB).

The type of visa held by a customer indicates their residence status
within Australia.

Contents

Initial contact with refugees, humanitarian entrants and protection visa
holders

Common types of Australian visas

Related links

Initial contact and identification of services for migrants, refugees
and visitors to Australia

Initial Contact and identification of services for job seekers

Aliases and other names (legal, preferred, sex and gender diverse
customers, cultural considerations)

Multicultural Guide

Communicating with victims of trauma and/or torture

Islam and Muslims in Australia

Australia’s Refugee and Humanitarian Program

Newly Arrived Resident's Waiting Period (NARWP) and Qualifying Residence
Period

Newly Arrived Resident’s Waiting Period (NARWP) and Qualifying Residence
Period Exemptions

Eligibility for Crisis Payment (CrP)

New claim for Crisis Payment for humanitarian entrants newly arrived in
Australia

Eligibility for Special Benefit (SpB)

Eligibility for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) for individuals

Status Resolution Support Services payment

First Contact Concessions, Carers and Seniors (FCCCS) workflow

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
