
Negotiating Job Plans for newly arrived refugees following the 'Refugee in First 13 Weeks' (REF) exemption 005-18101149

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the negotiation of a Job Plan by a Service
Officer for newly arrived refugees with mutual obligation requirements
following the end of the 'Refugee in First 13 Weeks' (REF) exemption
ending.

Newly arrived refugees

Newly arrived refugees who are in receipt of an income support payment
with mutual obligation requirements (for example, JobSeeker Payment
(JSP), Youth Allowance (other), Parenting Payment Single (with mutual
obligation requirements)) Receive the 'Refugee in first 13 Weeks' (REF)
mutual obligation requirement exemption for the first 13 weeks from
their arrival in Australia. The exemption period is adjusted to 11 weeks
and 6 days at the new claim. See Refugee and humanitarian entrant
service offer for more information on the changing of the exemption
date.

Newly arrived refugees who are eligible for the Better Targeting of
Support for Refugees measure remain Centrelink managed for an additional
period after their refugee exemption ends.

A Service Officer in the refugee's local service centre is responsible
for creating a Job Plan for them at their week 12 post exemption review
contact.

Note: as per normal processing, a Job Plan cannot be negotiated for a
customer that has a current exemption from their mutual obligation
requirements.

Determining eligibility to remain Centrelink managed and the duration of the Job Plan

The Participation Summary page will advise if the refugee is eligible
for the Better Targeting of Support for Refugees measure. There are a
number of factors that determine this eligibility. See Refugee and
humanitarian entrant service offer for more information.

Better Targeting of Support for Refugee measure

Customers eligible for the Better Targeting of Support for Refugees
measure remain Centrelink managed until they have been in Australia for
12 months. Their Job Plan needs to last until they have been in
Australia for 12 months.

Determining suitable requirements

Refugee Activities

A Centrelink managed newly arrived refugee can fully meet their mutual
obligation requirements if they satisfy one of the following:

-   participating in the Humanitarian Settlement Program (HSP)
-   undertaking the Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP)
-   participating in Workforce Australia as a volunteer

Activity referrals by the Employment Services Assessment (ESAt) Assessor

Newly arrived refugees will have an ESAt conducted prior to the end of
their REF exemption.

The Assessor can make referrals for the customer but will not complete
the Job Plan with the customer. Requirements that the customer have been
referred to will be identified in the ESAt report. These requirements
can be recorded on the Activity and Exemption Summary (AEX) screen on
the customer's record by the customer's local service centre.

Other Activities

Newly arrived refugees also have the option to participate in any other
approved activity to fully meet their requirements. For example:

participation in Skills for Education and Employment (SEE), where
eligible, or

if they are meeting suitable part-time work/voluntary work requirements
and are:

-   a principal carer,
-   have been assessed as having a partial capacity to work, or
-   are 60 or over

Negotiating the Job Plan

Whenever possible, newly arrived refugees need to have Refugee
Activities added to their record. The system will determine if a new Job
Plan needs to be negotiated.

Refugee Activities needs to be added to the customer's record as the
compulsory requirement when the customer advises they are participating
in:

-   the Humanitarian Settlement Program (HSP)
-   Adult Migrant English Program (AMEP) and/or
-   Workforce Australia

Service Officers must ensure that the start and end dates cover the full
Centrelink managed period (for example, until the refugee has been in
Australia for 12 months). See Refugee and humanitarian entrant service
offer for more information on how long the refugee will remain
Centrelink managed.

Note: the refugee does not need to provide evidence that they are
participating in these activities.

Ensure Refugee Activities (RAC) is recorded as the compulsory
requirement on the customer's record on the Activities and Exemptions
page. Once Refugee Activities (RAC) is coded on the AEX screen, the Job
Plan will auto populate with the following text 'I will meet my agreed
mutual obligation by undertaking approved activities and report my
participation in them to Centrelink'. To complete the Job Plan see Step
4 in Table 3 of Negotiating Centrelink Managed Job Plans.

If the customer is not participating in HSP, AMEP or Workforce
Australia, discuss a possible referral to one of these. If the customer
requests a referral, action referral and ensure that Refugee Activities
is added to the customer's record.

If the customer declines a referral to HSP, AMEP or Workforce Australia
then another appropriate compulsory requirement will need to be recorded
on the AEX screen (for example the requirement referred by their ESAt
assessor, Skills for Education and Employment, Part-time work or
Voluntary work).

As per normal processing, Service Officers will need to consider the
work capacity of the job seeker when negotiating a Job Plan. This is
contained in the ESAt report. The system will determine the most
appropriate Job Plan Item to be added to the customer's Job Plan.

Quarterly Participation Interviews (QTIs)

Customers who are eligible for QTIs are not eligible for the Better
Targeting of Support for Refugees measures. Service Officers must review
customer's Activities and Exemptions details in line with QTI
arrangements. See Quarterly Participation Interviews for Partial
Capacity to work and Temporary Reduced Work Capacity (0-7 or 8-14 hours
per week) job seekers, for more information.

TtW, CDP and DES

Refugees who require a referral to Workforce Australia - Transition to
Work (TtW), Community Development Program (CDP) or Disability Employment
Services (DES) are not eligible for the Better Targeting of Support for
Refugee measures. Service Officers must refer refugees to TtW/CDP/DES at
their Week 12 post exemption review contact. Service officers do not
need to create a Job Plan for refugees who are referred to TtW, CDP or
DES.

The Participation Summary page will display an action item if the
customer required a referral to TtW, CDP or DES.

See, Refugee humanitarian and protection visa holder service offer for
more information on newly arrived refugees eligibility to remain
Centrelink Managed.

The Resources page contains links to the Refugee Services intranet page
and links to external websites.

Related links

Job Plans

Negotiating Centrelink Managed Job Plans

Refugee and humanitarian entrant service offer

Approved activities for customers assessed as having a partial capacity
to work (PCW)

Approved mutual obligation requirements for customers assessed as having
a temporary reduced work capacity (TRWC)

Job Capacity Assessment (JCA) reports

Centrelink Medical Certificate (SU415 or SU683)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
