[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the Child Care Benefit (CCB) reconciliation and
lump sum calculation screens.

On this Page:

FTB and CCB Reconciliation workflow

Once CCB reconciliation or a CCB lump sum claim has been finalised, the
result can be viewed in the Family Tax Benefit (FTB) and Child Care
Benefit (CCB) Reconciliation workflow. For 2010-11 financial year and
prior, the FAO Reconciliation and Claim Summary (FRCS) screen is
available to view how the customer's CCB entitlement for approved care
was calculated.

CCB reconciliation

The screens show the difference between:

-   the child care fee reduction the customer received during the
    financial year based on the family's estimated income, and
-   their actual CCB entitlement based on their actual income, child
    care details and circumstance changes throughout the financial year

If details have been updated since reconciliation was finalised, the
screens will show the difference between the previous reconciliation
result and the new result.

Lump sum claims

The screens show how the customer's Child Care Benefit (CCB) entitlement
was calculated, including income and child care attendance details. If
details have been updated since the claim was finalised, the screens
will show the difference between the previous calculation and the latest
calculation.

Pending status

If CCB reconciliation or a CCB lump sum claim is pending, the screens
will show what information is still required for reconciliation or the
lump sum claim to be finalised.

Child Care Rebate (CCR)

A customer's annual CCR entitlement is automatically calculated when
Child Care Benefit (CCB) reconciliation is finalised or their lump sum
claim is granted.

Debt offsetting

The screens will show any Child Care Benefit (CCB) reconciliation
top-up, lump sum claim or CCR amount used for debt offsetting.

Related links

Reconciliation of Child Care Benefit (CCB) for approved care

Child Care Benefit (CCB) reconciliation or lump sum claim pending

Absences for Child Care Benefit (CCB) and JET Child Care fee assistance
(JETCCFA)

Debt offsetting during family assistance reassessment, reconciliation
and claim processing

Reconciliation of Child Care Rebate (CCR)

Initial contact about a decision and the review of decision process

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
