
This document outlines information on how customers can claim Family Tax
Benefit (FTB) and how Service Officers can help with claiming.

Circumstances for claiming

The procedures for claiming FTB is different based on the child's
circumstances:

Newborn child

Child comes into care as part of a process for adoption or surrogacy
arrangement. Claims can be made by the:

-   family entrusted with care of the child
-   birth mother for the period up to the child leaves their care

Child in care or enters care other than a newborn or adopted child

Another person can claim unclaimed FTB entitlements of a customer who
has died.

Helping customers

[] Customers can claim FTB online. If it is unreasonable to claim
online, Service Officers can assist customers to claim including
Indigenous customers living in remote communities who have language or
literacy barriers that make it difficult to use forms or claim online.

Assistance is also available to customers to help them provide:

-   proof of a child's birth
-   Tax File Number (TFN)

Contents

Online or Assisted Customer Claim (ACC) for family assistance, Parental
Leave Pay (PPL) and Dad and Partner Pay (DAP)

Assisting Indigenous customers to claim family assistance and/or Paid
Parental Leave scheme payments

Claiming family assistance and Parental Leave Pay (PPL) for a newborn
child

Helping customers provide proof of a child's birth for family
assistance, Child Care Subsidy (CCS) and Paid Parental Leave scheme
claims

Claiming payments for children entrusted to care as part of the process
of adoption or surrogacy

Claiming payments for children leaving care as part of the process of
adoption or a surrogacy arrangement

Claiming Family Tax Benefit (FTB) instalments for children in care other
than a newborn or adopted child

Provision of Tax File Number (TFN) for family assistance and Paid
Parental Leave scheme payments

Helping customers obtain a Tax File Number (TFN) for Family Assistance

Obtaining a Tax File Number (TFN) override for family assistance
customers experiencing an urgent or extreme circumstance

Progress of claim - Families claims

Related links

Initial contact for an early claim for family assistance and Parental
Leave Pay (PPL)

Initial contact by customers claiming Family Tax Benefit (FTB) as a lump
sum for a previous year

Initial contact after the death of a potential family assistance and
Paid Parental Leave customer

Eligibility for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) for grandparent carers

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
