
Family assistance and Paid Parental Leave scheme customer/child going overseas 007-02080000

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information for Service Officers to decide if
family assistance and/or a Paid Parental Leave scheme payments are
payable while a customer and/or their child are overseas and for how
long. It also explains the action to be taken by the Service Officer and
the customer before the departure.

On this Page:

Leaving to live in another country

Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Subsidy (CCS) and Paid Parental
Leave scheme payments are not payable to customers who cease to reside
in Australia.

If a customer leaves Australia to live in another country, their family
assistance will cancel from the date of departure. If a child leaves
Australia to live in another country, family assistance for that child
will stop from the date of departure.

Note: prior to the implementation of CCS on 2 July 2018, Child Care
Benefit (CCB) and Child Care Rebate (CCR) were in place with the same
rules about ceasing to reside in Australia.

Temporary absence overseas

An absence is considered to be temporary if the customer continues to
reside in Australia. A customer leaving Australia temporarily will
generally continue to be entitled to Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child
Care Subsidy (CCS), and Paid Parental Leave scheme payments for up to
the maximum portability period, from the original date of departure from
Australia, provided they are not return rule affected.

For original date of departure:

-   FTB (both Part A and Part B) can generally continue for up to 6
    weeks of a temporary absence of the customer and/or their child. At
    the end of this period FTB will cancel
-   CCS can generally continue if entitlement exists for the first 6
    weeks of an absence for the customer. At the end of this period CCS
    entitlement will decrease to a zero rate
-   Paid Parental Leave (PPL)/ Dad and Partner Pay (DAP) can generally
    be paid for Australian residents if entitlement exists for up to 56
    weeks of a temporary absence

Some customers can only be paid under approved absence rules. See
Approved absences for certain temporary visa holders.

If the customer or child is unable to return at the end of their maximum
portability period, Services Australia has the discretion to extend the
period of portability under certain circumstances.

There is usually no entitlement to CCS for the absence of the child from
child care as the care must be provided in Australia.

Note: if the child has 14 continuous weeks of non-attendance at child
care, their enrolment automatically ceases and payment may be recovered
from the customer. See Enrolment requirements for Child Care Subsidy
(CCS).

If a customer is receiving PPL or DAP while they are overseas, their:

-   PPL period will cancel when their absence exceeds 56 weeks, even if
    they have not received the maximum amount
-   DAP will cancel when their absence exceeds 56 weeks, even if they
    have not received the maximum DAP period

Note: the 56 week portability period starts from the date the customer
leaves the country regardless of whether they have a child in their care
or are in receipt of family assistance or Paid Parental Leave scheme
payments at that time. Return rules can impact the start date of the 56
week period. The Resources page contains a table providing information
about FTB portability periods and the effects on FTB rates and PPL
rules.

Brief return to Australia - return rules for FTB and CCS

A person or child who is absent from Australia for more than 6 weeks,
who returns to Australia and leaves Australia again less than 6 weeks
later, is deemed not to have returned to Australia.

If a customer or their child leaves Australia temporarily within 6 weeks
of their last return to Australia and the previous absence was longer
than 6 weeks, their FTB is cancelled as soon as they leave Australia
again. If the customer leaves Australia temporarily within 6 weeks of
their last return to Australia and the previous absence was longer than
6 weeks, their CCS entitlement will decrease to a zero rate.

These return rules do not impact the customer's entitlement to FTB
and/or CCS while they, or their child/ren, are physically in Australia
between overseas trips.

Multiple trips can be an indication that the customer and or child is no
longer residing in Australia. A customer is no longer eligible for FTB,
CCS, PPL or DAP if they cease to reside in Australia.

There have been a number of changes to these return rules since FTB
inception on 1 July 2000.

The Resources page contains a table providing information about
historical FTB portability periods and the effects upon FTB rates.

Approved absences for certain temporary visa holders

Customers who hold a visa subclass 309, 785, 790 or 820 and in receipt
of Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Subsidy (CCS) or Paid Parental
Leave scheme payments may continue to be paid for up to 6 weeks of a
temporary absence if the absence is for an approved reason. The approved
reasons are:

-   an acute family crisis (such as the death of a family member or
    where a family member is suffering a serious illness)
-   humanitarian reasons (such as custody or adoption proceedings, or
-   eligible medical treatment not available in Australia

Payments made to these customers are portable for a specific negotiated
period (usually 2 to 3 weeks) up to a maximum of 6 weeks. These
customers must be referred to the International Services (CIS) for
assessment.

FTB, CCS, PPL and DAP customers who hold certain temporary visas that
qualify customers for some payments are not payable for any reason if
they leave Australia (excluding visa subclass 790 and 785 granted on or
after 16 December 2014).

Defence Force and Australian Federal Police deployed overseas

Under limited and specific circumstances certain Defence Force and
Australian Federal Police (International Deployment Group) personnel who
are deployed overseas may be entitled to an extension of portability for
Family Tax Benefit (FTB), Child Care Subsidy (CCS), Parental Leave Pay
(PPL) and Dad and Partner Pay (DAP) for up to 3 years. These cases must
be referred to Centrelink International Services (CIS) for assessment.

The Department of Defence may cover any entitlements lost by defence
force personnel and their families due to overseas absences/postings.

These customers may request a letter stating when their entitlement
ceases (and the date from which the FTB reduction in rate occurred). The
letter will enable the relevant Department of Defence HR department to
calculate the shortfall and pay any lost entitlement if applicable. The
information can be provided via a Q999 letter or the standard letter for
any customer travelling overseas (XOB101 portability script letter).

Payment restoration

If a customer or child remains outside Australia after their payment has
stopped for a portability related reason, continuation of payment on
their return to Australia may be possible.

If the customer is unable to return to Australia after the maximum
portability period, Centrelink International Services (CIS) has the
discretion to extend the period of portability under limited
circumstances.

For Paid Parental Leave scheme payments:

DAP customers that lose residence qualification when they depart
Australia will have their payment cancelled from the day they depart
Australia. DAP cannot be restored on their return

PPL customers that lose residence qualification when they depart
Australia will have their PPL period cancelled from the day they depart
Australia. For children born or adopted:

-   before 1 July 2020, this will result in the cancellation of their
    PPL. This cannot be restored on their return
-   on or after 1 July 2020, this will result in the cancellation of
    their PPL period. This cannot be restored. If the customer returns
    to Australia within 2 years of their childâ€™s birth or adoption and
    is residentially qualified for PPL, they may be able to access
    Flexible PPL days

PPL customers that cease to reside in Australia will have their payment
cancelled. It cannot be restored on their return

Notification of intended departure and return

The Department of Home Affairs will generally advise Services Australia
when a Centrelink customer leaves or returns to Australia. When
Department of Home Affairs advise of departure/return information, the
portability of the payment is automatically assessed by the system,
regardless of whether the customer notified or not. Note: Department of
Home Affairs datalink activities should not be cancelled.

Services Australia uses the date of departure or arrival provided by the
Department of Home Affairs. If adversely affected, the customer can
provide evidence of alternative dates. Staff should consider applying
the alternative dates if it is reasonable and results in a beneficial
outcome for the customer.

In many cases, customers do not need to advise when they are leaving
Australia temporarily, or have returned from a temporary absence.

However, there are situations where customers should advise of a
departure prior to leaving Australia or contact when they have returned
to Australia.

[] In most cases, customers can notify of their departure from Australia
via the Travelling outside of Australia service within their Centrelink
online account. Where a customer's circumstances are more complex they
will be prompted to contact the agency.

The Services Australia website lists situations when customers must
advise they are leaving Australia. The Resources page has a link.

Portability interview

The Portability Script - Departures and Returns will correctly assess
the customer's entitlement to payment while outside Australia. If the
script is available, coding the absence from Australia should be done
using the script. If the customer's child is leaving Australia without
the customer, the script cannot be used.

Service centre and Smart Centre staff are responsible for handling the
portability interview and any departure coding where a customer clearly
does not satisfy an approved reason or where they are departing to live
in another country.

Portability period

A person's portability period starts on the day they leave Australia.
The day a person returns to Australia is not included as part of their
absence, as they are considered to be inside Australia on that day and
therefore no longer affected by portability. If the customer is
travelling outside Australia on a cruise, the date of departure is the
date the ship leaves the last Australian port.

The day a customer returns to Australia is not included as part of their
absence as they are considered to be inside Australia on that day
regardless of the time of return and no longer affected by portability.
If they leave and return on the same day, for example, airline crew,
this is not considered a departure from Australia for portability
purposes.

The Resources page contains links to the Services Australia website,
contact details, Helpdesk online query form and tables about changes
affecting Family Tax Benefit and historical portability period rules.

Contents

Changing Australian residence details for family assistance and Paid
Parental Leave scheme customer/child

Related links

Accepting information from nominees

Initial contact by a parent or guardian

Activating the Department of Home Affairs datalink and contingency
procedures if datalink is unavailable

Coding departures and returns for customers leaving Australia

Changing details of a customer's travel to and/or from Australia

Referring inconsistencies in overseas departure and arrival information
to Centrelink International Services (CIS)

Changing Australian residence details for family assistance and Paid
Parental Leave scheme customer/child

Portability of concession cards

Residence assessment for customers claiming Family Tax Benefit, Parental
Leave Pay (PPL) and Dad and Partner Pay (DAP)

Residence and Portability screens

Restricted portability for payment during overseas absences where
customer has special circumstances

Returning to Australia

Discretion to extend portability period

Portability of add-ons

View/Update overseas travel online

Temporary Protection, Humanitarian, Safe Haven and Return Pending visas

Enrolment requirements for Child Care Subsidy (CCS)

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
