
Eligible hours for Child Care Benefit (CCB) 007-03040020

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

From 2 July 2018:
- Child Care Subsidy (CCS) replaced Child Care Benefit (CCB) and Child
Care Rebate (CCR)
- Additional Child Care Subsidy (ACCS) replaced Special Child Care
Benefit (SCCB) Child at Risk and Temporary Financial Hardship, Jobs,
Education and Training Child Care Fee Assistance (JETCCFA) and
Grandparent Child Care Benefit (GCCB)
For more information, see Child Care Subsidy (CCS) and Additional Child
Care Subsidy (ACCS).
Claims for CCB and CCR lump sum for approved care and CCB Registered
Care, for care received prior to 2 July 2018, can be lodged up until 30
June 2019.

This page contains information on responding to enquiries about the
number of hours a customer would have been paid Child Care Benefit (CCB)
or the eligibility requirements that applied for Child Care Rebate
(CCR).

Flowchart

CCB and CCR enquiries about eligibility

This image provides a summary of how to respond to enquiries about the
number of hours a customer may be paid CCB for each child each week for
approved care for a retrospective period (before 2 July 2018) and a
registered care past period claim.

Note: a text based version of the following process summary image is
available.

[CCB and CCR enquiries about eligibility This image provides a summary
of how to respond to enquiries about the number of hours a customer may
be paid CCB for each child each week for approved care for a
retrospective period (before 2 July 2018) and a registered care past
period claim. ] 

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
