
Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation or lump sum claim pending 007-11010020

-   Background
-   Process
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the pending reasons for FTB reconciliation and
FTB lump sum claim assessments.

Customer enquiries

If a customer asks why reconciliation or assessment of the claim has not
occurred, advise them why it has not occurred and check details confirm
what information is still required.

FTB reconciliation or lump sum payment is parked

If the customer's FTB reconciliation or lump sum payment is parked as
reconciliation has already occurred, Service Officers should check that
the relevant Australian Taxation Office (ATO) information has been
received.

Pending reasons

FTB reconciliation or lump sum claim calculation may be pending because
one or more of the following applies:

Information about payments received by the customer or their partner
from Services Australia is not yet available

Actual income details needed for the customer or their partner have not
been received from the Australian Taxation Office (ATO)

-   If actual income details are received for one member of a couple,
    reconciliation is delayed for up to 4 days in case the partner's
    actual income details become available
-   Note: Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS) is assessed using
    taxable income, not adjusted taxable income (ATI) as for FTB Part A
    and Part B. This means that FTB reconciliation could result in only
    SIFS entitlement being assessed. Note: for the 2017-18 and later
    years, customers must meet the SIFS grandfathering provisions for
    SIFS to be paid at reconciliation

The reconciliation outcome is a debt, and there is a pause on debt
raising due to a declared major disaster or emergency event such as a
pandemic

Adequate care details are not yet available for an FTB lump sum claim
for 2010-11 onwards - a care assessment is required and care assessment
data has not yet been received from Child Support

For blended families, the customer has lodged a lump sum claim and
requested a blended family percentage but a claim has not been
lodged/processed for their partner

The immunisation status of an FTB child is unknown due to a pending link
with the Australian Immunisation Register for an FTB lump sum claim for
2018-19 onwards

An FTB immunisation grace period commenced on or before 30 June which
has not yet ended, and reconciliation cannot occur until:

-   the child meets immunisation requirements or
-   the FTB immunisation grace period ends (whichever occurs first)

The Resources page contains a link to the FTB reconciliation timeline.

Related links

Enquiries about Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation or lump sum
claim

Australian Taxation Office (ATO) information not received for family
assistance reconciliation or lump sum claim

Recording not required to lodge advice and previous year income

Alignment of Care processing for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) lump sum
claims

Family assistance reconciliation and lump sum claim screens

Debt offsetting during family assistance reassessment, reconciliation
and claim processing

Child Care Benefit (CCB) reconciliation or lump sum claim pending

Reconciliation of Child Care Subsidy (CCS)

Customer enquires about Child Care Subsidy (CCS) reconciliation outcome

Previous partners and Family Tax Benefit (FTB) and Child Care Benefit
(CCB) reconciliation

Using Centrelink self service

Assessing special circumstances extensions for families unable to meet
lodgement and other specific requirements for Family Tax Benefit (FTB)
and Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS)

Manual intervention into family assistance reconciliation

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
