
Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to child leaving care 007-11090060

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information on explaining Family Tax Benefit
(FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to a child leaving care.

Reconciliation overpayment

A Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayment can be explained
when the overpayment was partly or entirely due to a child leaving care
during the relevant financial year.

An overpayment could occur if the child left care during the financial
year and FTB was paid for the child after that.

Before reconciliation, a system calculated overpayment due to a child
leaving care may have been incorrectly adjusted. The system checks these
adjusted debts at reconciliation and includes them in the reconciliation
calculation.

Overpayments raised because a child has left care are qualification
overpayments and should be raised as soon as it is known that the
customer has been overpaid FTB for the child.

Part A and Part B supplements and Single Income Family Supplement (SIFS)
are included in the reconciliation calculation for eligible customers
once adequate income/ not required to lodge details are available. FTB
top-ups, including supplement and SIFS entitlement, are automatically
used for debt offsetting.

Related links

Reconciliation of Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Debt offsetting during family assistance reassessment, reconciliation
and claim processing

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
estimated income

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child support issues

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
shared care

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
blended family percentage

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
child income

Explaining Family Tax Benefit (FTB) reconciliation overpayments due to
Centrelink lump sum claim

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
