
Age/Disability Support Pension on the basis of blindness: Request for Ophthalmologist/Optometrist Report (SA013) 008-09050060

-   Background
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about when to issue and process the
Request for Ophthalmologist/Optometrist Report (SA013) form -
Age/Disability Support Pension - on the basis of blindness.

When the SA013 may be required

A customer who is assessed as permanently blind and not claiming rent
assistance may receive Disability Support Pension (DSP) or Age Pension
without being assessed against the income and assets tests.

The impacts of a customer's eye condition affecting their vision can
also be taken into account if they are claiming DSP, even if they are
not assessed as permanently blind.

A customer can use the SA013 to provide medical evidence about their
visual impairment when:

-   claiming DSP or Age Pension, or
-   already receiving either of these payments and seeking reassessment

Medical evidence of a customer’s visual impairment may also be accepted
in another suitable form.

Completion of the SA013

The SA013 should be completed by the customer's treating
ophthalmologist. An optometrist can complete the report but it must be
clearly stated it is supported by a report from an ophthalmologist and
details about the ophthalmologist are provided.

The local blind society may also be able to assist with information
provided by an ophthalmologist that measures the customer's visual
acuity under the Snellen Scale.

Alternative letter format for DSP visually impaired customers

Customers in receipt of Disability Support Pension (DSP) (Blind) or Age
Pension (Blind) can choose to receive their letters from Services
Australia in an alternative format. At this stage, the service is
restricted to letters only, not forms or flyers.

Customers who are interested in this service should phone the Centrelink
Disability, Sickness and Carers line or the Older Australian's (Seniors)
line during office hours. Contact details are available on the Services
Australia website.

The Resources page contains a link to the Request for
Ophthalmologist/Optometrist Report form (SA013) and the Services
Australia website.

Related links

Assessing Permanent blindness

Claiming and re-claiming Age Pension

What is medical evidence for DSP?

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
