
JobSeeker Payment (JSP) and Youth Allowance (YA) Incapacitated and Provisional 008-11000000

-   Background

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the payment of JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Youth
Allowance (YA) to customers with a temporary incapacity for work
(Incapacitated) or to customers while their claim for Disability Support
Pension (DSP) is being determined (Provisional).

JobSeeker Payment/Youth Allowance (Incapacitated)

[] Customers with an injury, illness or a disability can complete an
online claim for JobSeeker Payment or Youth Allowance (job seeker) using
their Centrelink online account where they have an active self-service
registration.

The online claim will ask if the customer has an injury, illness or a
disability, and if they answer ‘yes’ the customer will be advised they
can lodge a medical certificate. They are encouraged to use Upload
documents online. If the customer is not able to use Upload documents
they can lodge their medical evidence at their local service centre to
be scanned onto their record.

When a current customer is incapacitated for less than 2 years and is
unable to do any suitable work or study, they may apply for an exemption
or reduction in their mutual obligation requirements. This includes
customers with permanent conditions which may have exacerbated and
people with a serious illness who may require extended period(s) of
exemption.

A customer may be granted a temporary exemption from their mutual
obligation requirements if they lodge an approved medical certificate. A
person receiving JSP or YA who has been granted an exemption from their
mutual obligation requirements because of incapacity for work is not
required to satisfy the JSP mutual obligation requirements while the
exemption is current. However, when the incapacity exemption ends, the
customer will be required to enter into a Job Plan with either Services
Australia or their Employment Services Provider.

JobSeeker Payment/Youth Allowance (Provisional)

Customers lodging a DSP claim who are not already receiving an income
support payment are to be invited to test their eligibility for JSP or
YA (Provisional) by lodging a claim at the same time as their DSP Claim
unless there is clear eligibility for an alternative payment, for
example Parenting Payment Single.

The qualifications for JSP (Provisional) and YA (Provisional) are
essentially the same as for JSP, but with the following additions:

the person must have an outstanding claim for DSP, and

they must meet at least one of the following residential requirements:

-   they must have been an Australian resident at the time the illness
    or injury occurred
-   they must have had 10 years qualifying Australian residence, or a
    qualifying residence exemption
-   they were born outside Australia, and when the illness or injury
    first occurred, they were the dependent of an Australian resident,
    and later they became an Australian resident themselves while still
    the dependent child of an Australian resident

Content

JobSeeker Payment (JSP) and Youth Allowance (YA) (Provisional)

Medical conditions, codes, acronyms and terminology

Related links

Customers claiming JobSeeker Payment (JSP)/Youth Allowance (YA)
(Incapacitated)

Initial contact by a customer who is ill, injured or has a disability

First Contact Service Offer (FCSO) workflow

Assessment of a medical certificate to determine exemption from mutual
obligation requirements for a temporary incapacity

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
