
Online Claim for Mobility Allowance 008-05010030

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how a customer can make a claim for Mobility
Allowance (MOB) online and the requirements to verify their inability to
use public transport without substantial assistance.

It includes:

-   what a customer needs to do to start their online claim
-   accessing a started claim
-   what happens after they submit their online claim and supporting
    documents and forms required to assess the claim

Customer unable to claim online

If a customer is unable to claim online for MOB:

-   complete an Assisted Customer Claim (ACC), or
-   issue them the MOB paper claim

Customer contacts about claiming MOB

Customers can claim MOB online at any time if they have an active
Centrelink online account linked to myGov. They can access the Payment
and Service Finder on the Services Australia website to check if MOB is
an appropriate payment for them.

If the customer does not have a Centrelink online account, they may need
to confirm their identity if they do not have a:

-   Services Australia confirmed identity status, or
-   Digital Identity status recorded

The customer will need to visit their local service centre to create a
Centrelink online account and then link it to their myGov account.

Staff should help customers create a Centrelink online account and link
it to myGov. This will allow them to claim MOB and get Centrelink mail
online through the myGov Inbox. Service centre staff can help customers
with their online claim on a Self Service Terminal.

The online claim process helps to make sure complete and accurate claims
are submitted. Claims can only be submitted after all mandatory
questions are answered.

Customers are advised online that they should submit their claim as soon
as possible to be paid from the earliest possible date.

For customers turning 16, the MOB online claim allows them to submit an
early claim. If a customer or their nominee contacts to discuss their
intention to claim MOB before the customer turns 16, they are to be
advised that the online claim can be submitted when they turn 15 years
and 9 months, but will not be processed until they turn 16.

Nominees cannot submit mobility claims online on behalf of a customer.

Customers who advise they are getting a package of support from the
National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) are not eligible to get MOB.

For a MOB online claim for a qualifying activity requiring travel, a
customer can only submit the claim on or after starting their qualifying
activity.

If the customer needs help with their online claim, the Service Officer
can view the details of the online claim. See Viewing and processing
Online Claims and Assisted Customer Claims (ACC).

Starting an online claim

Customers will have known data pre-filled on their claim. For example,
relationship details. They will only have to confirm existing
information or provide new information.

After they create a Centrelink online account and link it to myGov,
customers can start an online claim for MOB.

For more information, see Step 1 in the Mobility Allowance (MOB) online
claims table on the Process page.

Completing the online claim

Customers need to answer the questions in the sections on the Claim
navigation pages. The questions are based on their circumstances.

Customers can select Save and Exit on any claim page to save their
response. This will allow them to continue with their claim later.

Customers can cancel a started online claim that they have not yet
submitted.

Submitting the online claim

Customers must accept a declaration before they can submit their claim.
This is a legal declaration and removes the need for a signed claim
form.

The customer’s claim information and details from My profile will show
on the Review your claim page. If they have not completed all required
details, a red Update required message will appear against the section
with missing information. Next is not enabled until required updates are
made. Update will navigate to My profile to make the required changes.
On completion, they select Return to your claim to go back to the Review
your claim page.

If documentation is required, it is requested on the Next steps page
after the claim is submitted. Customers will have continuing access to
their Next steps page during the life of the claim to check
documentation required to finalise their claim.

Customers can use the Upload documents service to provide further
information or documents for their claim.

After submitting their claim, customers are given:

-   the date they need to provide all supporting documentation
-   a Claim ID

Customers also have the online option to voluntarily cancel or withdraw
their online claim.

If customers contact about their online claim and the status is ‘draft’,
use Assisted Customer Claim (ACC) to submit it. For more details, see
Viewing and processing online and assisted customer claims.

Documents and information required

The customer sees the Next steps page when they submit their claim. The
page lists supporting documentation they need to provide to assess and
finalise the claim. The documents required will vary depending on their
responses to the questions throughout the claim. The customer will have
continuing access to the Next steps page in their online claim to check
the documents required and provide these, until their claim is assessed
and finalised.

If the customer submits the claim without providing supporting
documentation, they are advised to provide all supporting documentation
before a certain date so that their claim can be assessed.

When a customer makes a claim, they must provide a Medical Report -
Mobility Allowance (MA002), where the customer’s disability, or any
information about the disability already held by Services Australia,
does not clearly indicate they require substantial assistance to use
public transport.

If the customer is required to provide a medical report, the Next steps
page will include a link to a fillable PDF version of the MA002. The
customer has the option to print the form for their Treating Health
Professional (THP) to complete. The THP can also access the fillable PDF
version of the MA002 from the Services Australia website.

Proof of hours

Proof of 32 hours or more over a 4 week period is required if the
customer is:

-   working
-   undertaking training
-   doing voluntary work, or
-   doing a combination of work or training

See Step 4 in Table 2 of Eligibility for Mobility Allowance (MOB). For
types of acceptable evidence, see Verification of Mobility Allowance
(MOB) activities.

Rate of MOB

When MOB is claimed, the customer’s eligibility will be assessed to
determine if they are to get the standard or higher rate of MOB.

The Resources page contains links to the Services Australia website,
Digital Support Products, forms and information on common online claim
staff workflows, finalisation and follow up.

Related links

Processing claims for Mobility Allowance (MOB) in Process Direct

How customers create a myGov account and link services

Using myGov accounts

Identity Confirmation

Commencement of Identity

Alternative Identity

Mobility Allowance (MOB)

Eligibility for Mobility Allowance (MOB)

Verification of Mobility Allowance (MOB) activities

Payment rates and thresholds

Rates for Mobility Allowance (MOB)

Lump sum advance payments of Mobility Allowance (MOB)

Withdrawal of claims

Cancel or withdraw an online claim

Assessing Mobility Allowance (MOB) claims

Viewing and processing online and assisted customer claims

Social Applications

Requesting information (CLK)

Upload documents service

Viewing Centrelink customers' digital images

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
