
Disability Support Pension (DSP) customer going overseas 008-03120000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the procedures to help Service Officers determine
if DSP is payable while the customer is outside Australia and for how
long. Use the Portability Script - Departures and Returns when assessing
a customer's departure from Australia.

When DSP is not portable

DSP is not portable at all if the customer:

-   is subject to former resident rules
-   has already used the allowable 28 days of general portability in the
    previous 12 month period on or after 1 January 2015 and is not
    leaving Australia for an allowable portability reason
-   is leaving Australia to live in another country and is not exempt
    from the ongoing residence requirement, or
-   is leaving Australia to live in another country and qualifies for
    DSP due to a qualifying residence exemption as the holder, or former
    holder, of a refugee visa

4 weeks in a 12 month rolling period

Unless another portability provision applies, from 1 January 2015 DSP
customers can be paid outside Australia for a temporary absence of, or a
number of absences totalling, 4 weeks (28 days) in a rolling 12 month
period.

All days paid DSP while outside Australia are included in the 4 weeks,
with the exception of Approved Temporary Absences .The assessment
includes absences from Australia in the 12 months before the customer's
date of departure.

Check the DSP portability calculator on the Travel Outside Australia
Details (TOAD) screen. See the Initial assessment of overseas absence
for DSP customers table.

Before 1 January 2015, DSP customers could be paid for a temporary
absence of up to 6 weeks.

A transitional provision allowed payment to customers under the pre-1
January 2015 DSP portability provisions who:

-   booked and paid for travel outside Australia before 14 May 2014, and
-   the travel started on or after 1 January 2015, with the customer
    returning before 1 January 2016

A version of the 4 week portability rules applies to most International
agreements, when the DSP recipient travels to a third country (not
Australia or the Agreement country). For more information, see Customers
paid using an international agreement.

International agreement specific rules:

-   Days paid while outside Australia but in an agreement country are
    not counted while paid under that country's agreement with Australia
-   Days paid while outside Australia and outside the agreement country
    are counted in the 4 weeks

When DSP is portable for a limited time

DSP is portable for a limited time for a temporary departure in any of
the following situations. If the customer is:

-   departing temporarily under the Medical Treatment Overseas Program
    (MTOP), DSP is portable for the duration of the treatment
-   departing temporarily to undertake full time study outside Australia
    as part of their approved study, DSP is portable for the duration of
    the study (see full-time study provisions below)
-   severely disabled and is substantially dependent on and living with
    a family member posted outside Australia for work. DSP is portable
    for the duration of the posting
-   departing temporarily for an Approved Temporary Absences, DSP is
    portable for up to 4 weeks
-   departing temporarily for any other reason and continues to remain
    an Australian resident for DSP, DSP is portable for up to 4 weeks in
    a rolling 12 month period

If the customer is leaving Australia temporarily and has not used 28
days of portability in the last 12 months, a decision can usually be
made immediately over the phone. If the temporary absence will be
longer, the final decision as to how long payment can continue may not
be possible until more information is received (for example medical or
study information). An interim decision can be made immediately until
the customer supplies more information.

There is discretion to extend the period of portability in very limited
circumstances before DSP payments are due to cease, for example if the
customer has departed temporarily and is unable to return to Australia
due to unforeseen circumstances such as hospitalisation or ill health.

Note: if a customer is travelling outside Australia frequently for long
periods, they may be considered to have ceased to live in Australia. If
this decision is made, qualification for DSP will stop, even if the
customer returns to Australia regularly, unless they are exempt from the
ongoing residence requirement.

Full-time study provisions

If the main purpose of a customer's travel outside Australia is to study
units of their full-time approved Australian course, their DSP may be
portable for the duration of the study as long as the customer stays
enrolled in their full-time course. DSP paid under these provisions is
not subject to the proportional rate.

If the customer intends to have an overseas holiday before their
approved study, payments will stop when the total holiday period exceeds
their allowable portability period (they can be paid outside Australia
for up to 4 weeks in a rolling 12 month period before the approved study
period).

A customer may be paid for an overseas holiday before studying overseas,
between overseas study periods or after an overseas study period only if
the period paid DSP overseas before the holiday (including the approved
overseas study period) has not or will not exceed 28 days in a 12 month
period.

It is reasonable to allow up to 10 days total additional time (to be
included as part of the approved study period), either before and/or at
the completion of study, for the customer to prepare and/or finalise
their affairs and travel back to Australia. Additional travel time may
not be added to an overseas holiday period.

Any period paid DSP outside Australia due to overseas fulltime study
provisions will be included in the 28 days of allowable portability in a
rolling 12 month period.

When DSP is portable indefinitely

DSP is portable indefinitely if the customer is:

-   saved under 1 July 2004 provisions
-   terminally ill and departing to live in their country of origin or
    to be with family
-   travelling after 1 July 2012 and is assessed before departure as
    satisfying the 'no future work capacity' portability provisions, or
-   travelling to any agreement country that covers DSP and is qualified
    for DSP under that agreement

From 1 July 2021, legislation passed to allow the discretion to extend
the period of portability for customers receiving DSP, if they are not
able to return to Australia within 26 weeks due to unforeseen
circumstances, such as hospitalisation or ill health. This extension
allows the customerâ€™s payment to continue for an agreed period, without
being proportionalised according to their working life residence (WLR).
It would also allow certain add-on payments to continue for the period
of the extension. These add-on payments include:

-   Incentive Allowance
-   Pharmaceutical Allowance, and
-   Rent Assistance

To determine if a DSP customer with indefinite portability may be
assessed under the discretionary portability extension provisions, see
Discretion to extend portability period.

1 July 2004 savings provisions

An autonomous customer who departed Australia before 1 July 2004 and who
was not assessed as severely disabled before departure remained eligible
for payment for up to 26 weeks. DSP customers considered severely
disabled before departure were entitled to payment outside Australia
indefinitely.

Customers outside Australia on 1 July 2004:

-   who were given a decision that their DSP was payable indefinitely
    will continue to be paid under the same rules as those granted on
    their pre 1 July 2004 departure as long as they do not return to
    Australia for residence. If they return to Australia and again
    become an Australian resident, they will be subject to the new rules
    if they leave Australia again
-   did not have any special conditions if their DSP was only payable
    for a restricted period of 12 months or 26 weeks. Once they returned
    to Australia (or the agreement country) they became subject to the
    new rules on any subsequent departure from Australia

Terminally ill provisions

An autonomous customer considered terminally ill may be entitled to
payment indefinitely if they are going to live in their country of
origin or to be with or near a family member.

For more information, see Disability Support Pension (DSP) overseas
absence for terminally ill customers.

No future work capacity provisions

A customer intending to travel overseas for more than 4 weeks in a
rolling 12 month period (including leaving to live in another country)
may be entitled to continue receiving DSP indefinitely if they satisfy
the 'no future work capacity' portability provisions. To determine this,
the customer must have a medical assessment, including a Job Capacity
Assessment, before their departure from Australia.

If they are unable or unwilling to get a medical assessment done before
they leave Australia, they will not be eligible for payment under these
provisions. A new medical report is generally still required even if the
customer has an existing current and valid medical report, unless that
report was specifically for portability purposes.

Make the customer aware the result of the medical assessment may be that
they no longer satisfy the medical qualifications for DSP that will
result in the cancellation of their DSP. For this reason, the customer
may decline to have the medical assessment, in which case their
portability provisions will be limited.

Customers paid using an international agreement

Generally, customers qualified for DSP under an international agreement
can be paid indefinitely while they are inside the agreement country.

The specific rules of the agreement determine the customer's rate. Under
some agreements, they will continue to receive their inside Australia
rate of DSP (whether this is proportional rate or direct deduction rate)
for up to 26 weeks of a temporary absence from Australia. For other
agreements, the proportional rate will be paid immediately on departure
from Australia.

Transfer to an international agreement while outside Australia

Customers receiving DSP under autonomous rules may have to transfer to
an agreement (and from the date of transfer be paid a proportional rate)
either:

-   on departure (customers who have already used their 4 weeks in a
    rolling 12 month period, former resident customers or customers
    ceasing to be an Australian resident), or
-   when they have exceeded their portability period after departure
    (customers who remain an Australian resident but are outside
    Australia for more than the maximum portability period)

Generally, a customer must be considered severely disabled to qualify
under an international agreement.

International agreement rules for travel to a third country

If a DSP recipient is paid under of an international agreement and they
travel outside the agreement country, the agreement might impose its own
portability rules or it may refer to autonomous portability rules.

If an agreement refers to autonomous rules, any DSP recipient who is
paid by virtue of that agreement and who leaves the agreement country to
a third country will be subject to the same time limits as an autonomous
DSP recipient departing Australia.

This means that third country portability will generally be limited to
28 days in a rolling 12 month period, but also that third country
portability may be granted if travelling for an Approved Temporary
Absence or Required Duration Absence reason. For more information, see
Portability under agreements.

When assessing the general portability period for a person currently
paid under an Agreement:

-   Days the recipient was paid DSP under an Agreement, whilst they were
    in the Agreement country, are not counted in the 4 weeks
-   Days paid while outside Australia and outside the agreement country
    are counted in the 4 weeks
-   If the recipient was transferred to the agreement after leaving
    Australia, days paid DSP in the agreement country before being
    transferred to the agreement are counted in the 4 weeks

Customers travelling to New Zealand or paid under the New Zealand Agreement

The portability and/or rate provisions of the New Zealand Agreement may
affect customers receiving Age Pension, DSP or Carer Payment if they
are:

-   travelling to New Zealand
-   receiving a defined New Zealand benefit, or
-   paid their Australian payment under the Agreement

For more information, see New Zealand Agreement and foreign pension
information.

Additional payments

If a customer ceases to be an Australian resident on departure but
continues to remain entitled to DSP, or receives payment under the 20
September 2000 portability rules, the basic rate of pension and the
Pension Supplement Basic Amount is paid. Transitional rate customers
will receive the Transitional pension rate outside Australia from the
date of departure. Any add-on payments received such as Rent Assistance
(RA) cancel from the date of departure.

If a customer continues to remain an Australian resident for DSP on
departure, the Pension Supplement, or the Transitional inside Australian
pension rate, will be paid for up to 6 weeks from date of departure.
Other add-on payments may continue, if qualified, for a limited period.
If the customer is still receiving DSP after 6 weeks absence, they will
receive the basic rate of pension and Pension Supplement Basic Amount or
the Transitional outside Australia pension rate.

For more information, see Pension Supplement overseas absences.

Proportional rate - working life residence

If DSP is payable for more than 26 weeks under autonomous rules, payment
will usually be made at a proportional rate based on to their Australian
Working Life Residence (WLR).

Payment will not be proportional if the customer's continuing inability
to work (CITW) or permanent blindness occurred while they were an
Australian resident.

Restoration of payment upon return to Australia

If a customer remains outside Australia after their payment has stopped
for a portability related reason, continuation of payment on their
return to Australia may be possible. Generally, they can have their
payment restored if they return to Australia within 13 weeks of their
payment stopping.

A reclaim is required if payment is cancelled. The claimant must meet
current qualification requirements. If they are not qualified, they must
test their eligibility for an alternative payment. For example, a person
who is over Age Pension age cannot reclaim DSP and must claim Age
Pension.

Notification of intended departure and return

The Department of Home Affairs will generally advise Services Australia
when a Centrelink customer leaves or returns to Australia. The system
assesses the portability of the payment, regardless of whether the
customer notified or not. Note: Department of Home Affairs datalink
activities should not be cancelled as this may result in departures or
returns not being assessed.

Services Australia uses the date of departure or arrival provided by the
Department of Home Affairs. If adversely affected, the customer can
provide evidence of alternative dates. The agency must consider applying
the alternative dates if it is reasonable and results in a beneficial
outcome for the customer.

DSP customers must advise the agency if they are leaving Australia
temporarily.

[] In most cases, customers can notify of their departure from Australia
via the Travelling outside of Australia service within their Centrelink
online account. If a customer's circumstances are more complex, the
system will prompt them to contact Services Australia.

The Services Australia website lists situations when customers must
advise they have returned to Australia. The Resources page has a link to
the website.

Portability Interview

The rules regarding portability of DSP are quite complex. DSP is
portable indefinitely for some customers while for others it is not
payable for any absence from Australia. There have been a number of
significant changes to the rules on 1 July 2004, 1 January 2012, 1 July
2012, 1 January 2013 and from 1 January 2015.

The Portability Script - Departures and Returns will correctly assess
the customer's entitlement to payment while outside Australia and record
details on the customer's record. If the customer advises in advance,
the departure will still be recorded but the absence will not be
assessed until the customer actually leaves Australia.

In all other cases, if the script is available, coding the absence from
Australia must be done using the script.

A letter can be sent to the customer confirming the advice and providing
contact details for Centrelink while outside Australia. The option to
send this letter is contained within the Portability Script.

Portability period

A person's portability period starts on the day they leave Australia.
For portability purposes, a customer is not considered to be inside
Australia for any part of the day they departed Australia, regardless of
the time of departure. If the customer is travelling outside Australia
on a cruise, the date of departure is the date the ship leaves the last
Australian port.

The day a customer returns to Australia is not included as part of their
absence as they are considered to be inside Australia on that day
(regardless of the time of return) and therefore no longer affected by
portability. If they leave and return on the same day, for example
airline crew, this is not considered a departure from Australia for
portability purposes.

The Resources page contains examples, links to relevant forms and
resources, and links to the Services Australia website for information
for customers travelling overseas.

Contents

Disability Support Pension (DSP) severely disabled assessments for
International Agreements

Disability Support Pension (DSP) overseas absences for terminally ill
customers

Australian pensions paid outside Australia, the proportional rate

Assessment for Disability Support Pension (DSP) customers going overseas
under the no future work capacity provisions

Related links

Cancellation of Disability Support Pension (DSP)

Changing details of a customer's travel to and/or from Australia

Coding departures and returns for customers leaving Australia

Customers overseas on 1 July 2004

Customers overseas on 20 September 2000

Discretion to extend portability period

Former resident provisions

Pension Supplement overseas absences

Portability of add-ons

Eligibility for Disability Support Pension (DSP)

Returning to Australia

Student studying outside Australia

Transferring a customer record to provide additional service options
when customer is going overseas long term

Transfers to international social security agreements

View/Update overseas travel online

Working Life Residence (WLR)

Assessing and coding employment income

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
