
Vocational Education and Training (VET) and employment assistance services for people with disabilities 008-02020000

-   Background
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines when a young job seeker or student can access
disability employment assistance services while participating in a
Vocational Education and Training (VET) program.

Young job seekers

For a young job seeker to access disability employment assistance
services and be participating in a school based apprenticeship or
traineeship concurrently, the apprenticeship/traineeship must be a state
or territory funded Vocational Education and Training (VET) program.

If a job seeker is participating in school based work experience or
other VET programs funded by state or territory governments and the
program is provided as part of the Australian Apprenticeships Access
Program (Access Program), the job seeker is not able to participate in
disability employment assistance services at the same time.

Eligible job seekers

Eligible job seekers who are registered with a Workforce Australia
provider or Disability Employment Services (DES), and who have a
suitable business idea, may be referred by their provider or DES to
participate in the New Enterprise Incentive Scheme
(NEIS)/Self-Employment Assistance for specialist small business services
and training. See Referring a job seeker to Disability Employment
Services (DES) for further information.

Students

Disability employment assistance services are able to help students with
disabilities, who have the capacity to work for a minimum of 8 hours a
week with intervention, where the student is:

-   of legal working age and is working, or intends to work part-time
    outside of school hours at award-based wages
-   in the last 6 months of school and is considering post-school
    options/employment opportunities, or
-   participating in a formal school-based apprenticeship and
    traineeship, where assistance can be provided for the on-the-job
    component

Disability employment assistance services cannot assist school students
where the student is undertaking work experience or other education and
training activities that are part of the school curriculum.

Related links

Employment services for people with disabilities

Disability employment assistance services and programs

Eligibility and participation requirements for Disability Employment
Services (DES)

Disabled Australian Apprenticeship Wage Support

Participation requirements for Disability Support Pension (DSP)
customers under 35 years of age

Referring a job seeker to Disability Employment Services (DES)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
