
Disability employment assistance services and programs 008-04030000

-   Background
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document provides general information about disability employment
assistance services and includes detail about eligibility and referral
guidelines for each specific service.

Disability employment services programs

Disability Employment Services (DES) offers 2 programs to help people
whose disability, injury or health condition is their primary barrier to
finding and maintaining employment. Depending on their level of need and
their eligibility for Program Services, the Participant will be in
either:

-   Disability Employment Services - Disability Management Service
    (DES-DMS), that provides services to job seekers with temporary or
    permanent disability, injury or health conditions who require the
    assistance of a disability employment service and who may require
    flexible ongoing support but are not expected to need regular,
    long-term support in the workplace, or
-   Disability Employment Services - Employment Support Service
    (DES-ESS), that provides services to job seekers with permanent
    disability and who are assessed as needing regular long-term ongoing
    support in the workplace

Australian Disability Enterprises (ADE) was previously known as
Disability Supported Employment or Business Services. The ADE program
provides employment opportunities for people with disabilities that are
permanent (or likely to be permanent) and result in a need for ongoing
support services to gain and maintain employment or access supported
employment. Services Australia no longer has a role in assessment or
referral to ADE.

Eligibility for disability employment assistance services

From 1 July 2021, a job seeker has to be receiving, or be eligible to
receive, income support payments to receive assistance from disability
employment assistance services in most instances. Job seekers will also
need to be assessed with a current and future work capacity below 30
hours per week.

As a general rule, a referral cannot take place unless DES is
recommended in the customer's most recent current and valid Job Capacity
Assessment (JCA) or Employment Services Assessment (ESAt).

Some groups of customers are exempt from the requirement for a JCA or
ESAt, including Work Assist participants, eligible school students,
special class clients and eligible school leavers. These customers
generally directly register with the DES provider who will determine
whether an ESAt is required.

Where required a job seeker may be referred for an ESAt to assess
eligibility for DES, including job seekers who 'directly register' with
a DES provider.

See Eligibility criteria for participation in Disability Employment
Services (DES).

Referral to disability employment assistance services

A customer may be referred to DES by Services Australia staff:

-   Where an Assessor recommends DES as the most appropriate service in
    an ESAt or JCA report, they will generally refer the job seeker to a
    provider of their choice following the completion of the assessment
-   Where the referral is not made by the Assessor, other Services
    Australia staff may be required to make the referral after the EASt
    or JCA report is submitted, see deferred referrals of job seekers to
    employment services
-   May provide job seekers with information to assist them chose a
    provider however, they should not choose a provider for them. Where
    a job seeker does not want to choose a provider the random
    allocation process must be utilised
-   May inform job seekers that they can change their choice of DES
    provider up to 5 times over a 2 year period by calling the
    Department of Employment and Workplace Relations at any time without
    providing a reason

A customer may also approach a DES provider through the Direct
Registration pathway for Disability Employment Assistance services:

Job seekers with an illness, injury or disability may directly approach
an Employment Services Provider requesting registration for employment
assistance

This direct registration process applies for job seekers either not in
receipt of an income support payment or job seekers receiving a payment
with no mutual obligation requirements

A person who is not receiving an income support payment is eligible to
commence in DES to satisfy Program of Support (POS) requirements where:

-   Services Australia has assessed and rejected a claim for Disability
    Support Pension (DSP) on the grounds that POS requirements have not
    been met
-   the Provider has, and retains, a signed statement or email from the
    person that they have claimed and intend to re-claim DSP, subject to
    POS requirements
-   the Provider records that the person is undertaking a POS in the
    Special Placement section of the job seeker Eligibility screen
-   the job seeker meets other DES eligibility requirements, including a
    Valid ESAt referral

The direct registration pathway is normally appropriate for customers
who are exempt from the requirement for a JCA or ESAt including school
leavers and those eligible for Work Assist assistance

If the provider finds that the customer does not have a current and
valid assessment of the customer's work capacity, they can refer the job
seeker for an ESAt

For more information, see Referring a job seeker to Disability
Employment Services (DES).

Allowable program combinations

Services Australia can refer job seekers to programmes offered by a
number of government departments at the same time to assist the job
seeker find employment. This complements the assistance provided through
Employment Services Providers. For example, a job seeker may be actively
participating in DES at the same time as they are participating in
Skills for Education and Employment (SEE).

Community Development Program (CDP)

Job seekers located in a Department of Employment and Workplace
Relations designated remote area are referred to a Community Development
Program (CDP) provider. The CDP provider will provide a similar
disability employment service to job seekers.

DES complaint resolution

If the customer would like to lodge a complaint about disability
employment services they receive, direct them to contact the appropriate
complaints line. The Resources page has a link to the JobAccess website
for complaint resolution processes.

Contents

Eligibility criteria for participation with Disability Employment
Services (DES)

Referring a job seeker to Disability Employment Services (DES)

Reviews of Disability Employment Services (DES) participation

Allowable breaks from Disability Employment Services (DES)

Disability wage subsidies

Employment Assistance Fund

Disabled Australian Apprenticeship Wage Support

Work Assist

Supported Wage System (SWS)

Related links

Referrals to disability employment assistance services

Employment assistance for people with disabilities

Assessment Services

Participation requirements for Disability Support Pension (DSP)
customers under 35 years of age

Australian Disability Enterprises (ADE) referrals

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
