
Carer Payment (CP) (child) when caring for a disabled adult and 1 or 2 children with a disability or medical condition (multiple care) 009-04070040

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process for Service Officers assessing the
multiple care provisions for customers claiming Carer Payment (CP)
(child).

On this Page:

CP (child) multiple care

To qualify under these provisions the person must be caring for:

One disabled adult aged 16 years or over who has been assessed and rated
under the Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT) and given a score of
at least 20 including a Treating Health Professional (THP) score of at
least 8. This disabled adult, known as a 'lower ADAT score adult care
receiver', is deemed to have achieved a Care Needs Assessment (CNA)
rating of 40 under the Disability Care Load Assessment (child)
Determination (DCLAD)(2010), and

1 or 2 children aged under 16 years who:

-   each have achieved a qualifying THP score of greater than zero, and
-   have achieved, either individually or together, a CNA rating of at
    least 45. If assessing two child care receivers, each child should
    have achieved at least a minimum CNA rating of 20

The combination of adult and child CNA ratings must meet or exceed a
threshold rating of 85 (for example 40 (adult) + 45 (child/ren) = 85)
which is considered to be the qualifying rating of 'intense', as
assessed under the DCLAD.

In addition to the above, to be eligible for CP (child) under these
provisions:

-   The carer must personally provide constant care to the combined care
    receivers - one of the care receivers may not require constant care
    but the combination of care receivers altogether requires constant
    care
-   The provision of the care must severely restrict the person's
    capacity to undertake paid employment
-   All care receivers must meet all other care receiver qualifications,
    for example residence, care receiver income and assets
-   The carer must complete the usual carer assessment process

Note: care receivers can include 1 or 2 children under 16 years of age
assessed under the short term or episodic care provisions. This would
limit the grant to either a short term or episodic grant.

Carer Allowance (CA) (auto)

CA (auto) is available to all recipients of (CP) (child).

If CP (child) cancels, CA (auto) will cancel automatically at the same
time. The customer will need to lodge a new claim for CA (child) if the
child still requires and receives additional daily care due to their
disability or medical condition.

The Resources page contains a link to information for carers on the
Services Australia website.

Related links

Carer Payment (CP) (child) short term care

Carer Payment (CP) (child) episodic care

Carer Payment (CP) (child) exchanged care

Carer Payment (CP) (child) when caring for 2 to 4 children each with a
disability or medical condition (combined care)

Carer Payment (CP) for care receivers aged under 16

Eligibility for Carer Payment (CP) when a care receiver is aged under 16

Claiming Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance (CA)

Assessing claims for Carer Payment (CP)

Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT)

Disability Care Load Assessment Determination (DCLAD) (2010)

First Contact Concessions, Carers and Seniors (FCCCS) workflow

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
