
Temporary Cessation of Care (respite) provisions for Carer Payment (CP) and Carer Allowance (CA) 009-06010010

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the Temporary Cessation of Care (TCC) (respite)
provisions for Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance (CA).

On this Page:

TCC provisions

For information about:

-   the differences between TCC provisions for adults and children, see
    Temporary cessation of care (respite) and hospitalisation
-   hospitalisation, see Hospitalisation provisions for Carer Payment
    (CP) and Carer Allowance (CA)

The rules for temporary cessation of care (respite) and portability may
differ between CP and CA depending on the situation. The respite and
portability rules must be considered together in each case.

Note: if the care receiver returns earlier or later from an absence the
end date may be changed and a new return date must be recorded over the
previous date. See Step 6 in Table 1 of Coding one-off absence for Carer
Payment (CP)/Carer Allowance (CA) when the care receiver is absent.

TCC provisions allow carers to continue to receive CP and/or CA when
they take a break from caring, for up to 63 days in each calendar year.
These days may be used for any purpose including formal respite care
such as community in-home or residential respite, or informal respite
that is provided by a friend or family member. Services Australia has
the discretion to extend the period of TCC in special circumstances. If
a special reason exists, a carer can cease to provide the care receiver
with constant care for more than 63 days in a calendar year, and still
retain qualifications.

For a child care receiver, there is no limit for hospitalisation,
however the 63 day TCC limit still applies and all absences must be
recorded on the carerâ€™s record.

This principle also applies when calculating absences for education,
training and treatment for CA. However, this does not change the special
rules around coding of TCC in conjunction with the 25 hour rule. The 25
hour provision cannot be extended by using a carer's TCC (respite)
entitlement. For example, if a carer was absent from the caring
situation for 6 hours per day due to work, they would reach 24 hours by
Thursday, assuming the work was Monday to Friday. They could not then
declare the Friday to be their TCC day, because this would mean they
were absent in excess of 25 hours per week. See Carer Payment (CP) and
Carer Allowance (CA) carer undertakes paid employment, self employment,
voluntary work, education or training activities.

Application of TCC (respite) provisions

Even though both CP and CA allow up to 63 days TCC in a calendar year,
where a carer is in receipt of both payments for the same care receiver
the TCC provisions operate concurrently, not exclusively of each other.
That is, the carer is entitled to 63 days of TCC in the calendar year,
not 126 days. While the term often used is 'respite' absence, the
absence does not have to be for 'approved respite care' as defined by
the Department of Health and Aged Care and Ageing. TCC (respite) in this
context is any time which allows the carer to have a break from caring
and gives them the opportunity to have a holiday or participate in
activities other than caring.

Generally, only whole day periods of 24 hours (from midnight to
midnight) are counted as TCC days. This includes section 954A cases
where any day on which the carer does not provide care in the 24 hours
from midnight to midnight is an absence.

The Resources page contains an example of how to calculate these
absences.

Short periods of care provided during the day or evening by another
person, for example, a neighbour or other family member or by an
organisation such as a day care centre, will not necessarily preclude
eligibility for CP and/or CA even if this occurs on a regular basis.
Where the carer provides a high level of care while on duty and needs to
make alternative care arrangements in order to attend to their own
personal needs, the care requirements would still be satisfied as long
as the carer still has primary responsibility for providing care. Breaks
from caring of this nature should not be confused with breaks from
caring to participate in work or education or full day (24 hour) breaks
for respite or other purposes.

Wife Pension transfers to Carer Payment (CP) (XWP)

TCC (respite and hospitalisation) rules do not apply to CP (XWP) - Carer
Payment (CP) that is paid under grandfathering provisions for ceased
Wife Pension carers. However, TCC (respite and hospitalisation) rules
still apply to CA as normal.

When a CP (XWP) carer's only or last payment level CA is suspended or
cancelled for any reason or changed to CA HCC only, CP (XWP) will be
auto-cancelled. A carer loses their qualification for CP (XWP)
permanently if payment level CA is not reinstated without a gap in
entitlement.

Constant care and the 25 hour rule do not apply to CP (XWP). Respite
codes that only relate to CP should not be recorded for any TCC days for
a carer receiving CP (XWP).

See Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to Carer Payment (CP).

Absence must be temporary

A carer may continue to receive CP and/or CA during the cessation of
care, providing all the other conditions for payment are still met. The
cessation of care must be temporary and can be for either a continuous
period or a number of broken periods.

When a carer accesses respite provisions, it is assumed that an
organisation or other person is providing care. However, this is not a
legislative requirement.

Note: refer cases where it is difficult to determine if the absence is
temporary to the Level 2 Policy Helpdesk. For example, cases involving
Family and Domestic Violence. See Service Support Officer (SSO) role in
Technical Peer Support (TPS) in Smart Centres.

TCC and portability

If the carer goes overseas temporarily and the care receiver stays in
Australia, this is deemed a 'respite period' and allows the carer to
have a break of up to 63 days in any calendar year, from their usual
caring role without affecting their payment. However, this period would
be subject to the maximum portability period for the payment.

If the care receiver goes overseas:

-   without the carer, this is also deemed a 'respite period'.
    Portability provisions apply for the care receiver if they are in
    receipt of a payment. The relevant portability provisions will be
    those specifically relating to the type of payment the care receiver
    is paid
-   with the carer, only portability provisions apply. However, any
    subsequent TCC while overseas, must also be coded as an absence as
    the carer's payment may be affected before the portability period
    expires

Granted part way through a calendar year

Carers who are granted CP or CA part way through a calendar year are
entitled to the full 63 days TCC for each care receiver for that year.
When calculating the number of TCC days a carer has used, only absences
that have occurred since the date of grant are taken into account. Note:
if CP and/or CA has been cancelled because the carer has used more than
63 days TCC, they may reapply for CP and/or CA when they resume caring.

The carer would only be entitled to further TCC days for the remainder
of that calendar year if the delegate exercised discretion that 'special
reasons' for the absence apply. If the carer does not provide care again
in the same calendar year, their payment could be cancelled again but
the carer is entitled to reapply each time they resume caring.

Change of care receiver for Carer Payment (CP)

In cases where a carer has a change of care receiver(s) during the
calendar year, they are entitled to the full 63 days of TCC. Old
balances of TCC days for the previous care receiver should not be
transferred to the new CP care receiver.

Note: due to current system limitations, when there is a change in care
receiver(s), the system will not allocate 63 TCC days to the new care
receiver. Instead, the previous care receiver's TCC balance is
(incorrectly) transferred to the new care receiver. Therefore, these
cases must be referred to Carers Level 2 Policy Help Desk via the Online
Query Form. The Resources page contains a link to the Level 2 Service
Desks - Online Query Form and examples of change in care effecting TCC
balance.

Care receiver in gaol

If the care receiver is imprisoned, this is also considered an absence
and the carer's qualification for payment may continue. CP and/or CA
will then auto cancel when the 63 day TCC limit is reached.

Where a CP (XWP) customer is in gaol or in or in psychiatric confinement
because they have been charged with an offence and their only or last
payment level CA is stopped, CP (XWP) will auto-cancelled.

Carer in gaol

Payment of CP and/or CA will not continue if the absence is due to the
carer being in gaol, or in psychiatric confinement because they have
been charged with an offence. In this case, TCC days cannot be used, and
the payment is suspended when the absence is for 13 weeks or less, and
cancelled when the absence is for more than 13 weeks. If a carer is in
periodic detention or weekend detention for a whole 24 hour period from
midnight to midnight, they lose qualification for CP and/or CA as the
TCC provisions cannot be used for this type of absence and therefore,
daily care is not being provided.

This is not TCC and the Cancellation and Suspension workflow should be
used to suspend if absence is less than 13 weeks or to cancel if absence
is longer than 13 weeks.

Where a CP (XWP) carer is in gaol or in psychiatric confinement because
they have been charged with an offence and their only or last payment
level CA is stopped, CP (XWP) will be auto-cancelled.

Carer admitted to hospital

If the carer is hospitalised and is expected to return to the caring
duties once released, respite care may be utilised, as the carer is
temporarily not providing care to the care receiver. However, if the
balance of respite days exceeds 63 days, and CP cannot be extended for a
special reason, CP is to be cancelled.

If the carer is hospitalised and is not expected to return to their
caring duties once released, CP is to be cancelled from the first day
they did not provide care. (An â€˜indefiniteâ€™ stay in hospital may also
qualify the carer and care receiver for payment under the separated due
to ill health rules if they are also partners).

Note: a social worker referral may be necessary to ensure the care
receiver is continuing to receive adequate care and attention on a daily
basis from someone else while their carer is in hospital. The social
worker can also provide information to assist Service Officers to
determine whether the carer has the physical and/or emotional capacity
to deal with the care receiverâ€™s care needs when they are discharged
from hospital.

If a CP (XWP) carer is admitted to hospital and their only or last
payment level CA is suspended or cancelled (for example due to exceeding
63 days respite or the carer is not expected to return to their caring
duties), CP (XWP) will be auto-cancelled.

Two or more disabled children collectively qualify a carer for a single rate of CP

Where 2 or more disabled children collectively qualify a carer for a
single rate of CP, only 1 allocation of 63 days is given to the carer.
For guidance, see Carer Payment (CP) (child) when caring for 2 to 4
children each with a disability or medical condition (combined care).

For new claims where a care receiver is in respite (not hospital) at the
time a carer lodges a claim for CP and or CA, see Complications to
Grants of Carer Payment and/or Carer Allowance.

Shared care

For CA, where 2 carers each receive a percentage of CA in a shared care
situation, each carer is entitled to access the 63 days allocation of
TCC for the care receiver. An absence only occurs when neither carer
provides any care in the midnight to midnight 24 hour period. For
example when there is no arrangement to swap or change caring days and
the care receiver is in the home of a third carer. In these cases, TCC
should be recorded against the carer who would normally provide care.

Respite care couple

Where the carer and care receiver are partnered, they may be considered
to be members of a respite care couple if:

-   1 of the members has entered approved respite care see Legislation
    in the References page, and
-   the member who has entered the approved respite care has remained,
    or is likely to remain, in that care for at least 14 consecutive
    days

A respite care couple are entitled to be paid at the single rate of CP
until the period of respite ends.

Absences exceeding 63 days

Services Australia has the discretion to extend the period of TCC in
special circumstances. If a special reason exists, a carer can cease to
provide the care receiver with constant care for more than 63 days in a
calendar year, and still retain qualification.

What constitutes a special reason cannot be defined, and decision-makers
must therefore exercise discretion. Generally, such reasons would be
things that are outside the carer's control, and would be consistent
with their role as a carer. The care situation would be expected to
resume after a definite period. There would be no special reason
associated with the imprisonment of a care receiver, as the duration of
the prison term would be known up front.

When a CA (manual) care receiver is absent from the care situation to
undertake education, training or treatment, the carer may remain current
at 'nil rate' and still remain eligible for their concession card for up
to 13 weeks from the time their 63 day respite absence limit is reached,
provided the CA child is expected to return to care within the 13 week
period. See Carer Allowance (CA) child care receiver undertakes
education, training or treatment and Temporary cessation of care
(respite) for more than 63 days.

The Resources page contains an example of how to calculate the start and
end dates for coding of TCC or hospitalisation days for CP and CA and
examples of change in care effecting TCC balances. It also contains a
link to the Level 2 Service Desks - Online Query Form, and contact
details for the Access Support Centre (ACS).

Related links

Carer Allowance (CA) carer is absent

Carer Payment (CP) carer is absent

Carer Payment (CP) and Carer Allowance (CA) carer undertakes paid
employment, self-employment, voluntary work, education or training
activities

Assessment of circumstances for a couple separated due to illness

Carer Allowance (CA) and Carer Payment (CP) interaction of portability
and temporary cessation of care (respite) rules

Customer is separated from their partner due to respite care

Hospitalisation provisions for Carer Payment (CP) and Carer Allowance
(CA)

Temporary cessation of care (respite) for more than 63 days

View/Update Absence From Care online

Complications to grants of Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance
(CA)

Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to Carer Payment (CP)

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
