-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to assess whether a claimant for Carer
Payment (CP) satisfies the residence requirements necessary to qualify
for payment. The assessment includes whether the customer is
residentially qualified to lodge a legal claim for payment and required
to serve the Newly Arrived Resident's Waiting Period (NARWP).

Residence requirements for CP

To satisfy the residence criteria for CP, both the customer and their
care receiver must:

-   be an Australian resident
-   generally must be in Australia at the time the claim is lodged, and
-   remain an Australian resident throughout the period of payment

The customer only (not the care receiver) must also satisfy a 104 week
NARWP or have an exemption from the NARWP in certain circumstances.

Customers claiming CP who are new Australian residents must be in
Australia as an Australian resident for the duration of the NARWP before
CP is payable. Alternatively, they may have an exemption from the NARWP.

If a CP claim is rejecting due to the NARWP and the customer lived on
Norfolk Island before 1 July 2016, see Requesting and coding additional
residence data for Norfolk Island claims.

Services Australia introduced a 1 year (52 week) NARWP for Carer
Allowance (CA) from 1 January 2019. It is determined by the visa
subclass and grant date of the customer's first permanent residence
visa. Therefore, in some circumstances a person may qualify for CA while
ineligible for CP. However, the care receiver must also be an Australian
resident.

Serving the NARWP

Before Carer Payment is payable, customers who have recently arrived to
live in Australia and are claiming Carer Payment must have been:

-   an Australian resident, and
-   physically in Australia for the required duration of the NARWP,
    either in 1 period, or in a number of periods

Note: customers do not need to serve the NARWP period of residence
immediately before claiming.

Temporary absences from Australia in the waiting period do not restart
the NARWP, but the days a customer is overseas do not count towards
meeting the NARWP requirements. For example, a customer claiming Carer
Payment may have a 2 year NARWP. If they leave Australia temporarily for
3 weeks the NARWP period does not recommence, but the absence extends
the NARWP end date by 3 weeks.

This lets broken periods of residence in Australia count if the person
continued to be an Australian resident. For example, a customer returns
to live in Australia after several years living overseas may have
previously lived in Australia as an Australian resident. The period of
former Australian residence would count towards any current NARWP
requirements.

Note: the NARWP only needs to be served once for the applicable payment.

Immigration Datalink

The new claim process will try a datalink with the Department of Home
Affairs. If successful, the datalink will automatically record:

-   a customer's visa and movement information from 1 September 1994,
    and
-   grants of Australian citizenship, where available

Where the datalink is unsuccessful, residence information must be
manually recorded. If Department of Home Affairs provided the
information, it will take precedence over any conflicting information
the customer provided. Once the Department of Home Affairs record is
matched with a customer's record, the system will automatically record
ongoing updates to movement information and visa changes.

The Service Officer must manually assess and record a decision about
whether a customer is or was residing in Australia. The datalink does
not provide this information.

For current CP customers, it may be necessary to update country of
residence, visa information or Australian citizenship details. For help,
see Activating the Department of Home Affairs datalink and contingency
procedures if datalink is unavailable.

The Resources page contains contact details for Centrelink International
Services (CIS).

Related links

Newly Arrived Resident's Waiting Period (NARWP) and Qualifying Residence
Period

Newly Arrived Resident's Waiting Period (NARWP) and Qualifying Residence
Period Exemptions

Australian Residence Rules for New Zealand citizens

Assessing if a customer is an Australian resident (CLK)

Activating the Department of Home Affairs datalink and contingency
procedures if datalink is unavailable

Proof of Australian citizenship

Recording legal residence status

Coding the CRES, ARD and RSS screens

Requesting and coding additional residence data for Norfolk Island
claims

Coding and viewing the RSCD, TOAD and TOAS screens

Identifying customer vulnerability and risk issues

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
