[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how Disability Assessment Tools are used to
reduce subjectivity in the assessment process, and to help determine
whether a care receiver may qualify a carer for Carer Payment (CP)
and/or Carer Allowance (CA).

Government intent

Carer payments are intended to provide income support and assistance for
people who provide a substantial level of care for care receivers who
have a disability or medical condition. To measure the level of care,
tools are used to assess the amount of help the care receiver needs to
undertake basic activities of daily living such as mobility,
communication, hygiene, eating and management in a range of cognitive
and behavioural areas.

These tools enable a weighted score to be calculated to determine that
the care receiver is a person with a disability or severe medical
condition which results in the need for a significant level of care and
therefore meets the definition of a disabled person.

On this Page:

Disability assessment tools

The Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT) is used to assess the
disability and care needs of CP and/or CA (adult) care receivers 16
years and over. The ADAT contains a carer questionnaire and a Treating
Health Professional (THP) questionnaire about the amount of help the
care receiver needs to undertake basic activities of daily living such
as mobility, communication, hygiene, eating and management in a range of
cognitive and behavioural areas.

The Disability Care Load Assessment Determination (DCLAD) 2020 is used
to assess the disability and care needs of CP and CA (child) care
receivers aged under 16. The DCLAD contains the List of Recognised
Disabilities, a carer questionnaire (CNA) and a THP questionnaire. A
score or qualifying rating derived from the answers to the
questionnaires are used as part of the determination of whether the care
receiver qualifies a carer for payment.

Re-use and re-claim provisions

Re-use provisions allow eligible Treating Health Professional (THP)
medical reports and/or Care Needs Assessments (CNAs) previously supplied
to be used for a subsequent claim. The online claim and First Contact
Service Offer (FCSO) workflow will identify the option to re-use this
data if the most recent reports meet the re-use provisions.

Re-claim provisions allow qualifying THP medical reports and CNAs
previously supplied to be used for a subsequent claim. Re-claim
provisions are automatically assessed when a carer claims online or FCSO
is run.

Contents

Child Disability Assessment Tool (CDAT) prior to 1 July 2010

Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT)

Disability Care Load Assessment (child) Determination (DCLAD) (2020)

Storage and access to information for carers and disability claimants
and recipients

Related links

Re-use and re-claim provisions for Carer Payment (CP) (child) and Carer
Allowance (CA) (child) claims

First Contact Service Offer (FCSO) workflow

Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to Carer Payment (CP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
