[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information on the re-use and re-claim provisions
for claims for Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance (CA) for a
child under 16. These provisions cover the Treating Health Professional
(THP) medical reports and Care Needs Assessments (CNA).

On this Page:

Provisions for adult care receivers

Re-use and re-claim provisions for adult care receivers can be found in
Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT).

Claims and re-claims of CP and/or CA (child)

For CP and/or CA (child) claims and re-claims, the most recent CNA and
medical reports for new and current carers may be re-used if the carer,
care receiver and the report meet re-use or re-claim eligibility
criteria and the information is gathered under any of the following:

-   Child Disability Assessment Determination (CDAD) 2001
-   DCLAD 2020
-   List of Recognised Disabilities (LoRD)
-   terminal condition assessment for CP (child) including those under
    pre July 2009 Profoundly Disabled Child (PDC) provisions

Re-claim provisions

Re-claim provisions allow qualifying THP medical reports and CNAs
previously supplied to be used for a subsequent claim. Re-claim
provisions are automatically assessed during the Carers Online Claim or
Assisted Customer Claim (ACC).

Re-claim provisions may be applied if all of the following are met:

-   a carer loses qualification for CP and/or CA
-   the carer re-applies (re-claims) for the same CP and/or CA
    combination
-   the care receiver/s for the original claim are the same as for the
    re-claim
-   the care receiver/s still meet the age requirements of the original
    CP and/or CA (they are under 16)
-   the re-claim is not more than 26 weeks from the date qualification
    for CP and/or CA was lost. Only the most recent qualifying THP
    medical report and/or CNA may be used

Re-claim provisions apply for 26 weeks from the date qualification for
the previous CP and/or CA is lost. If claim forms are lodged outside the
26 week window, re-claim provisions cannot be applied. The date the THP
signed the medical report is not relevant for re-claim provisions.

Note: intent to claim provisions were amended on 1 July 2018, and only
apply to carers in vulnerable circumstances.

A child care receiver who was previously assessed with a terminal
illness, which qualified the carer for CP (child), will not be required
to provide a new THP medical report or CNA for a CP (child) re-claim.

If the child care receiver was previously assessed in the most recent
assessment as having a List of Recognised Disabilities (LoRD) condition
which does not have an age qualification, a new medical report and CNA
are not required for a CA (child) re-claim.

Carers not eligible for re-claim provisions may be eligible under re-use
provisions (see below).

Note: re-claim provisions cannot be applied where a carer's record has
been cancelled for not providing a Medical report or CNA required for a
medical review.

When medical reports cannot be used under re-claim provisions

The medical report cannot be used again under re-claim provisions for
child care receivers who:

have been identified with the following age specific List of Recognised
Disabilities (LoRD) condition

-   severe multiple or physical disability (including controlled
    seizures), once the child is aged 6 months or older

were granted CP (child) under the episodic or short term claim
conditions

A medical report used to qualify a carer for CP (child) under Profoundly
Disabled Child (PDC) provisions cannot be used under re-claim provisions
unless the care receiver has been assessed with a qualifying terminal
condition

The re-claim assessment will not be subject to Validation or Carer
Specialist Assessment Team (CSAT) processes.

Note: re-claim provisions cannot be applied where a carer's benefit has
been cancelled as a result of the carer failing to provide a medical
report or CNA which was required for a medical review.

Re-use provisions

Re-use provisions allow eligible THP medical reports and/or CNAs
previously supplied to be used for a subsequent claim. The Carers Online
Claim and Assisted Customer Claim (ACC) will identify the option to
re-use this previous data for the child care receiver if the most recent
reports meet the re-use provisions.

If 1 carer is in receipt of CA for a child care receiver and a second
carer claims under the shared care provision, the care receiver does not
have to be tested a second time against the list of recognised
disabilities (LoRD) or Disability Care Load Assessment Determination
(DCLAD). The second carer is not required to provide another medical
report for the same care receiver, but will need to complete a CNA.

The online claim and ACC cannot determine if the care receiver is in
shared care unless there is a previous or current link with the second
carer, so a medical report may be incorrectly issued. If the child is
not linked to the second carer, the child's details cannot be accessed
via the current carer's record due to the privacy provisions. It is not
possible to stop the online claim or ACC from issuing the medical
report, so if it is known that another carer already receives CA, the
second carer should be advised that the medical report is not required.

Re-use provisions may be applied if the following are met:

The care receiver is under 16 years of age at the time of claim

The most recent:

-   recorded THP medical report was assessed under Child Disability
    Assessment Determination (CDAD) 2001 or DCLAD 2020, and/or
-   CNA was assessed under DCLAD 2020

The most recent recorded THP medical report sign date is either:

-   within the last 26 weeks, or
-   within the re-use time window (THP medical report sign date) when
    the carer contacts to claim payment. See the Resources page for a
    table showing when a THP medical report can be re-used

The THP and/or CNA scores qualify the carer for the benefit being
claimed under re-use provisions

A CNA lodged to support a CA (child) claim under CDAD 2001 cannot be
used to support an assessment under the re-use or re-claim provisions.
If the most recent CNA was to support a claim under CDAD 2001 any
subsequent claim or re-claim will require a new CNA.

Service Officers have the discretion to waive the validation process for
1 or more questions when re-using THP medical reports or CNAs.

Re-use and re-claim provisions are not applicable for CA Health Care
Card only (HCC) re-claims. Re-use provisions do not apply to medical
reviews.

If a claim or re-claim is granted with a re-used medical report, any
subsequent reviews will be deferred for 3 months from the date of
determination.

CA carer claims CP: the above provisions apply when a carer is in
receipt of CA and claims CP for the same care receiver. Although the CA
medical report does not ask the constant care question, the re-use
provisions can apply. If the Service Officer has concerns they can issue
an SA428 form, or clarify with the carer that constant care is provided.

Most recent medical report and/or CNA

Only the most recent qualifying THP medical report and/or CNA may be
re-used.

If the re-use provisions apply to a carer and the carer lodges a new
medical report, the latest medical report must be used. Eligible care
receivers must have a current or non-current link with the prospective
carer, and if no link exists, the Carers Online Claim or Assisted
Customer Claim (ACC) will request/issue carers with a new medical report
and CNA.

Re-use provisions cannot be applied where a carer's benefit has been
cancelled for not providing a THP medical report or CNA required for a
medical review.

CA (child)

If a child care receiver was most recently assessed with:

-   a terminal illness, a new THP medical report and CNA assessment is
    not required for a subsequent CP (child) claim. This applies
    irrespective of the THP sign date at the time of claim or re-claim
-   a non-age-specific List of Recognised Disabilities (LoRD) condition,
    a new THP medical report and CNA assessment will not be required for
    a subsequent CA (child) claim

The above rules apply irrespective of the THP sign date on the medical
report at the time of claim or re-claim.

Period of condition: when applying the re-use provisions, the Carers
Online Claim and ACC do not consider the period of a child's condition.
If the THP medical report and CNA scores satisfy eligibility, the online
claim or ACC will not request/issue a new THP medical report. If there
are concerns, the Service Officer may contact the THP to determine
whether the period of condition meets eligibility and document this on
the carerâ€™s record and proceed with the claim.

CP (child)

A carer receiving CP (child) under Profoundly Disabled Child (PDC)
provisions, who has not been assessed with a CP (child) qualifying
terminal condition, will require a new THP medical report and a new CNA.
The previously supplied PDC medical report cannot be used under re-claim
or re-use provisions as the care receiver is now required to be assessed
under the DCLAD (2020).

Re-use provisions in change in care, combined and multiple care claims

Where there has been a change in carers and the new carer had previously
not tested their entitlement, the re-use provisions may apply to the THP
medical report. However, the re-use provisions will not apply to the CNA
which must be completed by the carer for the CP (child) claim.

Combined and multiple care claims may only re-use a previously supplied
CNA if the following conditions are satisfied:

-   the same carer and care receiver combination is applies, and
-   the CNA report is for the same age re-use bracket as the care
    receiver(s) age at the latest claim. See the Resources page for a
    table showing when a THP medical report can be re-used

If the most recently provided CNA does not satisfy all qualification
requirements for re-use a new CNA is required.

Where a carer qualifies for CA (child) using the combined scores for 2
children, the re-use provisions only apply to the care receiver/s for
whom the original CA was payable (the same 2 care receivers).

The Resources page contains a table to help in determining if a previous
THP medical report can be re-used for a current claim.

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
