-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This is a Family and Domestic Violence Interaction Point. If the
customer is with another person, on speaker phone, or already identified
with family and domestic violence concerns, continue with the current
business conversation. Otherwise, go to the Family and domestic violence
procedure to conduct the risk identification and referral process.

Customers in immediate danger or risk of harm must call 000.

If you have concerns about a child’s safety, conduct the risk and
referral process.

This document explains the cancellation or suspension of CP and/or CA.

Accepting Information from the care receiver or third parties

Third parties, including the care receiver, may disclose information
regarding a change in circumstances, which may affect the carer’s
eligibility for CP and/or CA.

Make sure information relating to the carer is not disclosed to any
party who does not have permission. See Accepting and disclosing
information.

Cancellation or suspension of CP and/or CA based on third party information

CP and CA must not be suspended or cancelled if:

-   it is just suspected that a carer is no longer eligible for payment
    or
-   Services Australia have received unverified information (for
    example, tip-off) which suggests the carer may not be eligible

See Accepting information from and disclosing information to a care
receiver or third party.

Cancellation of CP and/or CA

CP and CA can be automatically or manually cancelled if:

-   a carer is no longer entitled as a result of changes in their
    circumstances, or
-   they have failed to comply with the requirements for payment

For more details on automatic or manual cancellation reasons, see:

-   Cancellation, suspension and rejection codes for Carer Allowance
    (CA), and/or
-   Cancellation, suspension and rejection codes for Carer Payment (CP)

Do not cancel CP and/or CA unless it is established the carer has lost
entitlement. Key the changes in the carer’s circumstances on their
record so it accurately reflects the current circumstances of the carer
and the care receiver. This will allow the system to auto-cancel the
carer's CP and/or CA following reassessments where no continuing
entitlements exist.

A decision to manually cancel or suspend CP and/or CA has potentially a
great impact on the carer and must be made in accordance with
legislation and the relevant process. Cancellations or suspensions
placed on carer's records that do not follow the correct process may
cause financial hardship and distress.

Carer cancellation and suspension workflow

The carer cancellation and suspension workflow will allow staff to:

-   cancel or suspend CP and/or CA at carer level or care receiver level
    in a single activity
-   choose action on CP and not CA or vice versa. In some cases the
    workflow will auto-populate the reason field where it is appropriate
    to cancel or suspend both CP and CA
-   perform different actions at the same time. For example, cancel CA
    if care requirements are not met and cancel CP if the carer's
    activities exceed 25 hours per week within the same activity

Cancellation or suspension reason ‘other’ (OTH)

The cancellation or suspension code 'OTH' should only be used as a last
resort where

-   no alternative cancellation, suspension or change in circumstance
    coding is appropriate, or
-   an Operational Blueprint process specifically instructs for OTH to
    the used

Meaning of 'at carer level'

'At carer level' is where the change in circumstances applies to the
carer and all payments the carer receives, for all care receivers are to
be cancelled or suspended.

For example, where the carer has not provided confirmation of identity
for themselves.

Note: Carer level is sometimes referred to as ‘at payment level’.

Meaning of 'at care receiver level'

‘At care receiver level’ is where the change in circumstances applies to
the care receiver. For example, when confirmation of identity was not
provided for the care receiver.

When CA payment is cancelled at the care receiver level, the payment
will only cancel for the chosen care receiver(s) only. If there are
other qualifying care receivers, CA will remain current for those care
receivers.

Note: it is not possible to suspend payment at the care receiver level.

Cancellation of CP (child) and effect on CA (auto)

If a carer's CP (child) is cancelled, the related CA (auto) payment also
cancels. See Eligibility for Carer Allowance (CA) (auto) when a carer is
also receiving Carer Payment (CP) (child).

Consumer Price Index (CPI) activities for CA customers

CA CPI activity can result in cancellation of the customer’s payments.
If a CA CPI activity presents, see Change of circumstances for Carer
Allowance (CA).

Suspension of CP and/or CA

CP and/or CA may be suspended if a carer is temporarily not qualified
for payment or the payment is not payable because of:

-   changes in either the carer or care receiver’s circumstances
-   failure to comply with the requirements for CP, or
-   information is required to make sure that CP is directed correctly
    (such as a valid address or bank account details)

Before suspending CP, an appropriate request for information must be
issued. See Requesting information (CLK).

Suspension does not necessarily indicate a loss of qualification. Full
arrears may be issued if CP and/or CA is subsequently restored.

Carer Payment (XWP)

CP (XWP) is not subject to Temporary Cessation of Care (TCC) for Carer
Payment, constant care, the 25 hour rule or care receiver assessments.
Therefore, some cancellation reason codes cannot be used to cancel CP
(XWP). These include 25H, CAB, CAS, CDE, CIH, CNP, CNQ, HBE, MCQ, NMQ,
NRQ or RBE.

CP (XWP) is still subject to carer payability rules such as the
pension's income and asset tests and portability. CA continues to be
subject to all the normal rules. See Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to
Carer Payment.

If the carer’s only or last payment level CA is suspended or cancelled
for any reason, or changed to CA HCC only or nil rate due to Education,
Training and Treatment (ETT), CP (XWP) will auto-cancel. However, CP
(XWP) will be auto-restored if payment level CA is restored or
reinstated without a gap within 13 weeks.

A Manual Follow-up (MFU) and work item will be produced to assess
eligibility for CP (XWP) restoration manually, where payment level CA is
restored or reinstated without a gap more than 13 weeks later. See
Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to Carer Payment.

DAP and/or PPL and CP cancellation or suspension

Paid Parental Leave (PPL) and Dad and Partner Pay (DAP) for children
born or entering care:

-   on or after 1 October 2016, PPL and DAP granted to the carer (and/or
    their partner) are treated as ordinary income for calculating the
    rate of payment for CP
-   before 1 October 2016, PPL and DAP are not treated as assessable
    income for CP

PPL or DAP alone is not enough income to reduce CP to nil rate. The
carer would need to have other forms of income for their rate to be
reduced to nil (and therefore cancelled). If CP cancels, it can be
reinstated after the PPL or DAP period ends.

Home Equity Access Scheme

Carers in receipt of CP who receive loan payments under the Home Equity
Access Scheme are eligible to continue receiving their loan payments if
CP suspends for certain reasons. In these circumstances, the CP status
is set to Current Zero Rate (CZR) for reason PLS to enable the loan
payments to continue being paid. During periods of CZR-PLS, the customer
is not eligible to receive any other rate components until the CP
suspension is lifted. See Home Equity Access Scheme cancellations and
rejections.

Vulnerable and at risk carer’s without an Income Support Payment

A vulnerable and at risk carer without an income support payment for a
minimum of 6 weeks due to an automatic suspension or cancellation, may
be eligible for manual intervention. See Manual intervention for
automatic suspension and cancellation of vulnerable and at risk
customers.

Related links

Advising verbally of an unfavourable decision

Carer Payment (CP) or Carer Allowance (CA) customers and bereavement
assistance

Initial contact about a decision and the review of decision process

Cancellation, suspension and rejection codes for Carer Payment (CP)

Cancellation, suspension and rejection codes for Carer Allowance (CA)

Changing address (CLK)

Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance (CA) Child to Adult Transfer

Restoration of Carer Allowance (CA)

Restoration of Carer Payment (CP)

Carer Restoration workflow for Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance
(CA)

Restoring payments after bank account details provided

Restoration of Carer Allowance (CA) where the care receiver has not
confirmed their identity

Initial contact about a decision and the review of decision process

Carer Allowance (CA) income review processing

Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to Carer Payment (CP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
