
Carer Payment (CP) (child) terminal illness 009-04070070

-   Background
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information relating to customers claiming Carer
Payment (CP) (child) and Carer Allowance (CA) (auto) for care receivers
who have a terminal illness.

Carer Payment (CP) (child) terminal illness

For the purposes of CP (child), a terminal condition is where a child
under 16 years has a terminal condition and is not expected to live more
than 24 months.

Where a medical practitioner has certified the child care receiver has a
terminal condition, they do not need to undergo the Disability Care Load
Assessment (child) Determination (DCLAD) and are granted CP
automatically, provided they meet all other eligibility criteria.

CA (auto) is automatically payable for each child care receiver for the
period for which the carer is paid CP (child) for that care receiver,
where the carer is not already receiving CA (child) for the care
receiver/s under the standard CA provisions.

This means CA (auto) may be payable even if the standard provisions for
CA (child) are not met. For instance, the condition is expected to last
for at least 6 months but not 12 months; or the child is not a dependent
child of the carer.

Continuing eligibility to 18 years of age

When a child care receiver turns 16 years of age they are considered an
adult for social security purposes. Carers current on CP (child) and CA
(auto) under the terminal illness criteria, will remain on CP and CA
(auto) and can remain payable up until the day the care receiver turns
18 years.

Eligible carers are sent a Child to Adult Transfer (CTAT) invitation
letter when their child care receiver turns 17 years and 9 months,
inviting them to apply to transfer by the due date if they want their
entitlement to be assessed under adult provisions. See Carer Payment
(CP) and/or Carer Allowance (CA) Child to Adult Transfer (CTAT).

CTAT paper forms lodged from 1 July 2018 (where CP has already been
cancelled), are deemed as a new claim from the date they are submitted.

Completion of medical form

A Treating Health Professional (THP) may complete the medical report
form, however, they must provide the contact details (including the
provider number if available) of the medical practitioner who has
assessed and certified the terminal condition for Services Australia's
verification purposes.

Care receiver already 16 years or over

If the care receiver is 16 years or over at the time the terminal
illness is certified by a medical practitioner, the care receiver will
be assessed under the CP (adult) terminal illness provisions.

For the purposes of CP and CA (adult) a terminal condition is where a
person aged 16 years or over is in the final phase of a terminal illness
and is not expected to live more than 3 months.

Where a medical practitioner has certified the adult care receiver is
terminally ill, they do not need to undergo the ADAT assessment, as they
are granted payment automatically, provided they meet all other
eligibility criteria.

Related links

Carer Payment and/or Carer Allowance Child to Adult Transfer (CTAT)

Claiming Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance (CA)

Reviews of terminal illness for Carer Allowance (CA) (adult)

Reviews of terminal illness for Carer Payment (CP) (child)

Terminal illness reviews for Carer Payment (CP) (adult)

Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to Carer Payment (CP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
