
Carer Payment (CP) carer is absent 009-06030020

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about the effect on Carer Payment
(CP) when the carer is temporarily absent from the caring situation. It
includes information specific to CP (XWP).

On this Page:

Carer is absent

Carers can participate in paid employment, self-employment, voluntary
work, education or training activities and still qualify for CP as long
as the total time the carer is not providing constant care (including
travel time) does not exceed 25 hours per week. Carers may participate
in more than 1 activity.

Temporary Cessation of Care (TCC)

CP and Carer Allowance (CA) carers have up to 63 days per calendar year
where they can be temporarily absent from the caring situation but still
qualify for payment. This is called a 'respite' absence. Carers caring
for an adult aged 16 years or over are also allowed 63 days when the
care receiver is receiving care in hospital and the carer is
participating in that care. This is called a 'hospitalisation' absence.
This means a carer has 2 allocations of 63 days during which they do not
have to provide constant care or daily care and attention at home, but
during which they may still qualify for CP or CA.

The hospitalisation provisions only apply when the care receiver is in
hospital. For a child care receiver, there is no limit for
hospitalisation, however the 63 day TCC limit still applies and all
absences must be recorded on the carer's record.

Note: when a care receiver remains in hospital for longer than 63 days
in 1 calendar year, a carer may use the balance of their 63 day
temporary cessation of care entitlement to remain eligible for CP. The
balance of 63 hospitalisation days per calendar year does not apply if
the carer is hospitalised. If the carer is temporarily admitted to
hospital, then the temporary cessation of care provisions only may
apply.

If the carer is paid under the short term care or episodic care
provisions, the respite limit will be a pro-rata amount, based on the
period for which CP (child) is being granted.

Carer admitted to hospital or institution

If the carer is temporarily admitted to an institution or hospitalised
and is expected to return to the caring duties once released, respite
care is to be utilised, as the carer is temporarily not providing care
to the care receiver. However, if the balance of respite days exceeds 63
days, and CP cannot be extended for a special reason, CP is to be
cancelled.

If the carer is permanently admitted to an institution or hospitalised
and is not expected to return to their caring duties once released, CP
is to be cancelled from the first day they did not provide care. In most
cases it will be the day after they entered the institution or hospital.
(An 'indefinite' stay in hospital may also qualify the carer and care
receiver for payment under the separated due to ill health rules if they
are also partners).

Note: a social worker referral may be necessary to ensure that the care
receiver is continuing to receive adequate care and attention on a daily
basis from another carer. The social worker can also provide information
to assist Service Officers to determine whether the carer has the
physical and/or emotional capacity to deal with the care receiver's care
needs when they are discharged from the hospital or institution.

Absence must be temporary

What is relevant about the absence is that it must be temporary and the
carer must be likely to resume providing care at the end of the absence.
CP can be automatically or manually cancelled when a carer is no longer
entitled because of changes in their circumstances. Where a person
(carer, care receiver, nominee or third party) advises the agency of a
change in circumstances which may result in cancellation of CP, see
Cancellation of Carer Payment (CP).

Note: refer cases where it is difficult to determine if the absence is
temporary to the Level 2 Policy Helpdesk. For example, cases involving
Family and Domestic Violence. See Service Support Officer (SSO) role in
Technical Peer Support (TPS) in Smart Centres.

Definition of a 'day' of absence

For respite and hospitalisation purposes, a 'day' must include an
overnight stay - that is, a whole 24 hour period from 12 am to 12 am
(midnight to midnight). Part days do not count in the calculation of
absences for CP or CA. An example of how this is calculated can be found
in the Resources page.

This principle also applies when calculating absences for education,
training and treatment.

Note: this does not change the special rules around coding of respite in
conjunction with the '25 hour rule' - the 25 hour provision cannot be
extended by using a carer's TCC (respite) entitlement.

Short periods of care (of less than 24 hours) provided during the day or
evening by another person or an organisation do not count as temporary
cessation of care, even if this occurs regularly.

For absences that are not for a full 24 hour period, midnight to
midnight, Service Officers should ensure the carer still qualifies for
payment under the '25 hour rule'. See Carer Payment (CP) and Carer
Allowance (CA) carer undertakes paid employment, self-employment,
voluntary work, education or training activities.

Care receiver is partner of carer

If the care receiver is the partner of the carer and the expected length
of absence will be greater than 14 nights, the couple may be entitled to
an illness separated rate. This is because the carer and care receiver
(who are partners) will be separated due to illness.

Carer commences study

A carer may undertake study by either attending a University, TAFE, or
college on a daily basis, or for a residentially based live in course.
If the carer is undertaking a (residentially based) live in course then
the 25 Hour rule provisions will apply for any periods the carer is
absent from the carer receiver. For instance, the carer undertakes a
short (residentially based) live in course where they are absent from
the care receiver from Friday evening till Sunday evening. In this
situation Temporary Cessation of Care (TCC) (respite) is assessed for 7
days of the week, even though the activity may have only been for 3 days
of that week.

If the carer is studying at home their entitlement to Carer Payment (CP)
will not be affected.

Note: The 25 hour rule does not apply to carers getting CP (XWP). TCC
applies to their CA as normal.

Absence is 25 hours or less per week

Even if the absence from the care situation (for employment and/or
study) is 25 hours or less per week, record the hours on the Carer
Payment Activity Details (CPAD) screen. This will allow the carer's
entitlement to CP to be correctly assessed if they are also employed
part time. See Carer Payment (CP) and Carer Allowance (CA) carer
undertakes paid employment, self-employment, voluntary work, education
or training activities.

If a carer already in receipt of CP has commenced an activity or a
combination of activities which always exceed 25 hours per week and the
duration of the activities is expected to exceed 63 days, cancel CP by
applying the 25 hour rule. If the carer already in receipt of CP has
commenced an activity or combination of activities which temporarily
exceed 25 hours per week, then the carer has the choice of accessing
their Temporary Cessation of Care (TCC) days instead of CP being
cancelled by applying the 25 hour rule.

Carer in gaol or psychiatric confinement

Only the Prison Servicing Team can suspend CP and/or CA if the carer
enters gaol. Smart and Service Centre officers are not to suspend carer
payments. See the Process page, Step 2 in Table 1.

If the carer is in gaol, or in psychiatric confinement in connection
with an offence, payment of CP will not continue.

When the carer enters gaol or psychiatric confinement, CP is suspended.
If the carer is still in gaol or psychiatric confinement after 13 weeks,
CP is then cancelled.

Respite days cannot be used if the carer has been charged with an
offence.

If a carer is in periodic detention or weekend detention for a whole 24
hour period from 'midnight to midnight', they lose qualification for CP
and/or CA as respite cannot be used for this absence and constant daily
care and attention is not being provided.

Wife Pension transfer to Carer Payment (CP) (XWP)

Temporary Cessation of Care rules, constant care and the 25 hour rule do
not apply to CP (XWP) - Carer Payment (CP) that is paid under
grandfathering provisions for ceased Wife Pension carers. CP (XWP) is
still subject to carer payability rules such as the pensions income and
asset tests, portability, and carer in gaol or psychiatric confinement
provisions. The illness separated rate is available for CP (XWP).

However, Temporary Cessation of Care (TCC) rules continue to apply to CA
as normal. If a carer is permanently admitted to an institution and is
not expected to return to their caring role, cancel CA. When a CP (XWP)
carerâ€™s only or last payment level CA is suspended or cancelled for any
reason or changed to CA HCC only, CP (XWP) will be auto-cancelled. A
carer loses their qualification for CP (XWP) permanently if payment
level CA is not reinstated without a gap in entitlement.

The Resources page contains an example of how to calculate the start and
end dates for coding of respite or hospitalisation days for CP and CA.

Related links

Temporary Cessation of Care (respite) provisions for Carer Payment (CP)
and Carer Allowance (CA)

Carer Allowance (CA) and Carer Payment (CP) interaction of portability
and temporary cessation of care (respite) rules

Assessment of circumstances for a couple separated due to illness

Carer Payment (CP) and Carer Allowance (CA) carer undertakes paid
employment, self-employment, voluntary work, education or training
activities

Coding a one-off absence for Carer Payment (CP)/ Carer Allowance (CA)
when the care receiver is absent

Coding a regular absence for Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance
(CA) when the care receiver is absent

Prison admission process and claims during incarceration

Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â  Â 

-   Services Australia ABN 90Â 794Â 605Â 008Â 
