
Lower Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT) score Carer Payment (CP) where there is an absence of the adult care receiver or their dependent child 009-06040040

-   Background
-   Process
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about recording absence details where
the adult care receiver or the dependent child of a lower Adult
Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT) score adult is absent from the caring
situation.

Eligibility

Where a carer on Carer Payment (CP) provides care for a lower ADAT score
adult care receiver, and that care receiver provides care for a child,
an absence of either the adult or the child is counted as an absence for
the carer.

Note: for a carer to qualify for CP lower ADAT the care receiver's
dependent child must be either less than 6 years of age, or from 6 to
less than 16 years and attracting Carer Allowance (CA).

Respite care

The carer has only one allocation of respite care days, and an absence
by either the adult care receiver or the child is counted as an absence
for the carer. When it is the child who is absent, details must be
recorded on both the care receiver's record (for CA purposes) and the
record of the CP carer.

Overseas absence

If the carer is absent due to being overseas, the rules for temporary
cessation of care and portability may differ between CA and CP depending
on the situation.

Related links

Temporary Cessation of Care (respite) provisions for Carer Payment (CP)
and Carer Allowance (CA)

Coding a one-off absence for Carer Allowance (CA)/Carer Payment (CP)
when the care receiver is absent

Coding a regular absence for Carer Allowance (CA)/Carer Payment (CP)
when the care receiver is absent

Carer Allowance (CA) child care receiver undertakes education, training
or treatment

Eligibility for Carer Payment (CP) under the Lower Adult Disability
Assessment Tool (ADAT) provisions

Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT)

Carer Allowance (CA) and Carer Payment (CP) interaction of portability
and temporary cessation of care (respite) rules

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
