
Review of lower Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT) score adult where dependent child turns 5 years and 9 months 009-08060080

-   Background
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information in identifying and conducting Carer
Payment (CP) (adult) reviews in respect of a care receiver who has
qualified their carer under the provisions of a Lower Adult Disability
Assessment Tool (ADAT) score adult and the dependent child of that
adult.

Qualification provisions

The qualification provisions for CP (adult) under the rules of care
provided for a disabled adult and that adult's dependent child, depends
on the status of 2 care receivers; the disabled adult and the dependent
child of the disabled adult. If the child is aged 6 or over, that child
must attract Carer Allowance (CA), which would be reviewed according to
the CA review regime.

If the child is aged under 6 years, there is no requirement for that
child to attract CA. When the child turns 6, the Care Receiver will need
to claim CA for this dependent child, in order for the CP to continue.
If the child does not qualify for CA, the care receiver must have
another child under 6, or a child between 6 and 16 who does qualify for
CA, for the carer to remain qualified for CP.

This review affects the carer's payment but may also involve the care
receiver. The review ensures that the care receiver is being paid the
correct entitlements in regard to their dependent child. This review
also enables the carer time to consider alternative payment entitlements
if the CP is to be cancelled and to lodge claims in time to ensure
ongoing payments when the CP ceases.

Related links

Claim for Carer Payment (CP) when care is provided for a disabled adult
and that adult's dependent child

Review of a lower Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT) score care
receiver and that adult’s dependent child

Assessment of dependent children, additional income free area and child
income under Social Security Law

Carer Payment (CP) (child) when caring for a disabled adult and one or
two children with a disability or medical condition (multiple care)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
