
Change of care for Carer Allowance (CA) for 2 dependent children with disabilities 009-03050020

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

-   Background
-   References

This document outlines the action required when there is a change of
care for Carer Allowance (CA) when the payment is based on 2 children
with disabilities.

On this Page:

Change in care when in receipt of CA

When a carer qualifies for CA because of the combined assessment of 2
children under the Disability Care Load Assessment Determination
(DCLAD), the assessment of the change will depend on the new care
arrangements.

The possible new arrangements are:

-   both children change care, and are now cared for by the same new
    carer
-   only one of the children changes care
-   both children change care, but go to separate parent or carers

When a carer stops providing care for a care receiver, CA should be
cancelled.

Both children go to live with the same carer

If there is an existing link between the carer and the care receiver,
whether current or non-current, it may be possible to re-use the care
receiver's medical data under the re-use provisions.

If the carer and care receiver have a link, the Carers online claim and
Assisted Customer Claim (ACC) will determine if the medical data can be
re-used.

If there is no link between the care and the care receiver, the Carers
online claim and ACC cannot establish if medical data can be re-used for
the care receiver (due to system limitations). The Carers online claim
and ACC will request the medical information in all these scenarios.

A new medical report will be required if either:

-   the claim is made within 6 months of the next scheduled review of
    entitlement, or
-   there is reason to believe the medical condition of either of the
    care receivers has changed

Children start living with 2 different carers

In this case, neither carer will immediately qualify for CA because the
care receivers are not currently assessed as attracting CA in their own
right. Each of the carers will have to test eligibility for each child
by either:

-   claiming Carer Payment (CP) (child) under the appropriate provisions
    (CA (auto) will be automatically paid if the CP (child) claim is
    granted)
-   having each care receiver in their care reassessed under the DCLAD
    to see if they now qualify as a disabled child in their own right,
    or
-   having CA payments cease for the current carer and each carer being
    tested for eligibility to Health Care Card only (HCC only) CA

A copy of the Medical Report - Carer Allowance for a child under 16
years (SA333TDR/SA426) can be transferred to the file of the new carer.
However, to ensure privacy principles are complied with, care should be
taken to delete any references to personal information about the
previous carer. Details of the information transferred should be noted
on the record of both the new carer and the care receiver. The new carer
will need to complete the questions in the Care Needs Assessment (for a
child under 16 years) contained within the [] online claim or ACC.

Dispute between carers

If there is a dispute between two carers over the care being provided
see Change of care for Carer Payment (CP) and Carer Allowance (CA)
customers

Related links

Assessing claims for Carer Allowance (CA) for 2 disabled children

Carer Payment (CP) (child) when caring for a disabled adult and 1 or 2
children with a disability or medical condition (multiple care)

Carer Payment (CP) (child) exchanged care

Cancellation of Carer Allowance (CA)

Eligibility for Carer Allowance (CA) (child) when a customer is claiming
or receiving CA only

Claiming Carer Payment (CP) and/or Carer Allowance (CA)

Processing carers online and assisted customer claims

Coding a claim for Carer Allowance (CA) where the care receiver is under
16

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
