
Initial contact with students or Australian Apprentices with a disability, illness or injury 010-01020040

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This purpose of this document is to assist Service Officers to determine
the most appropriate payment for a student or Australian Apprentice who
has a disability, illness, injury or special health need.

Eligibility for payments

Students or Australian Apprentices with a disability, illness, injury or
a special health related need may qualify for a range of payments or
concessions depending on:

-   their age
-   the expected duration of their incapacity, and
-   whether or not they are currently in receipt of a payment

Students receiving ABSTUDY Living Allowance, Austudy or Youth Allowance
may be eligible to continue receiving payments for the duration of their
incapacity, where they intend to return to full time study and meet all
other eligibility criteria for their payments.

Students with a substantial physical, psychiatric or intellectual
disability may qualify for a study load concession which allows them to
receive Austudy, Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY Living
Allowance or ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement while undertaking a
reduced study load of at least 25 percent of the normal full-time
amount.

A secondary student with a reduced study load due to a disability or
special health related need may still be considered a full-time student
by the educational institution.

A student with a disability or special health related need which
prevents them from attending the local state school/s may also qualify
for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) allowance.

If the customer's incapacity is permanent or likely to last more than 2
years, they may wish to test their eligibility for Disability Support
Pension (DSP); see Eligibility and Claiming Disability Support Pension
(DSP).

At initial contact the Service Officer is required to assess the
customer's circumstances and direct the customer to the most appropriate
claim.

Australian Apprentices

Customers wishing to claim or continue to receive ABSTUDY Living
Allowance, Austudy or Youth Allowance (YA) as an Australian Apprentice
must maintain a current Commonwealth Registration Number for the period
of the disability, illness or injury.

The Resources page contains a link to the Payment and Service Finder on
the Services Australia website where customers can get information about
payments while studying or training, and contact details for ABSTUDY and
Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC).

Related links

Austudy student or Australian Apprentice becomes incapacitated

Youth Allowance (YA) Student or Australian Apprentice becomes
incapacitated

Payment of ABSTUDY when a student or Australian Apprentice becomes
incapacitated

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme student becomes
incapacitated

Customers claiming JobSeeker Payment (JSP)/Youth Allowance (YA)
(Incapacitated)

Claiming Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker)

Identifying people with a partial capacity to work

Youth Disability Supplement (YDS)

Initial contact with customers claiming under the Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
