-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

Schools with special programs

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2023
Secondary schools special course list

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2022
Secondary schools special course list

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2021
Secondary schools special course list

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2020
Secondary schools special course list

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2019
Secondary schools special course list

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2018
Secondary schools special course list

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2017
Secondary schools special course list

There have been significant changes made to the 2017 list. As a result,
there are a number of special courses/programs that are no longer
approved. Where a student was previously approved in 2016 for the away
from home rate due to being enrolled in special course/program, the
student will continue to be eligible under the continuity of ABSTUDY
away from home criteria if they are still enrolled in the program.

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png] 2016 list
of schools with special programs approved for the away from home rate of
ABSTUDY

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png]2015 list
of schools with special programs approved for the away from home rate of
ABSTUDY

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png]2014 list
of schools with special programs approved for the away from home rate of
ABSTUDY

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png]2013 list
of schools with special programs approved for the away from home rate of
ABSTUDY

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png]2012 list
of schools with special programs approved for the away from home rate of
ABSTUDY

[\\INTERNAL.DEPT.LOCAL\Shared\NAT\SERDELEXCEL\WORKPRODIMP\Operation
Blueprint Migration\RDT Release Icons\32w\icon-attachment.png]2011 list
of schools with special programs approved for the away from home rate of
ABSTUDY

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
