
Determining Activity Test breaches for unapproved absences for ABSTUDY secondary school students 010-02090010

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines when an Activity Test breach may apply for
ABSTUDY secondary school students who have more than 5 days of
unapproved absences in a term.

Unapproved absences

To qualify for payment, ABSTUDY secondary school students must study
full-time. If an attendance check with the education institution reveals
the student has had more than 5 full days of unapproved absences in a
term, they may be required to sign an Activity Agreement.

Once the Activity Agreement is signed, an Activity Test breach penalty
occurs if the secondary school student has more than 5 full days'
unapproved absence in a subsequent school term.

Note: the Activity Agreement process does not apply to students who are
ABSTUDY Schooling A students as they are normally still of compulsory
school age and are the responsibility of the relevant State/Territory
education authorities. Technical and Further Education (TAFE) secondary
level students do not have attendance checks and will not have
unapproved absences.

Extended period of unapproved absences

If an education institution advises that an ABSTUDY secondary school
student has continuously failed to meet compulsory attendance
requirements for longer than 2 weeks without an acceptable reason, the
secondary school student will be deemed to have discontinued full-time
study.

Absence due to suspension or expulsion

An ABSTUDY secondary school student has no entitlement to Living
Allowance, Rent Assistance, Remote Area Allowance or Pharmaceutical
Allowance for a period during which they are expelled, suspended or
excluded from school.

The Resources page contains a table of ABSTUDY Activity Test breach
penalties.

Related links

Negotiating ABSTUDY Activity Agreements (ABAA) for ABSTUDY secondary
students with unapproved absences

Exemptions from study for ABSTUDY

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
