
Assessing and coding claims for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme 010-03020040

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to assess and code a Claim for Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC) (SY040).

Eligibility

AIC is available for primary, secondary and certain tertiary students
who are unable to attend an appropriate state school because of
geographic isolation or special health-related or educational needs. See
Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme.

Requirement to lodge a claim

A claim must be lodged in full for the first year of claiming AIC for
each individual child. After this, the applicant must reapply every year
using the AIC End of Year process.

Claim processing

When a claim for AIC is received, Service Officers must ensure a full
assessment is undertaken, especially where information held within the
claim would entitle them to a higher rate of payment or additional
allowances.

Unfavourable decisions

When making an unfavourable decision, speak to the customer:

-   explain the decision
-   give them a chance to provide more information, and
-   advise their review and appeal rights

The Resources page contains links to the Centrelink rate charts and
state government educational authorities, and a table determining unique
study and living arrangements for AIC.

Related links

Age requirements for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Determining who can be the applicant for Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) Scheme

Residence requirements for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Determining the Entitlement End date for the Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) Scheme

Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Distance
Education Allowance (DED)

Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Second Home
Allowance (SHA)

Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Boarding
Allowance (BA/ABA)

Rejecting an Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme claim

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
