-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to determine approval of mainstream or
Indigenous courses for ABSTUDY.

General eligibility criteria for ABSTUDY

One of the general eligibility criteria for ABSTUDY is that the student
must be enrolled in an approved course. ABSTUDY policy has an additional
course approval requirement to that set out in the Student Assistance
(Educational Institutions and Courses) Determination under the Student
Assistance Act 1973 (the Ministerial Determination) that governs the
approval of courses for student payments generally. This additional
requirement is to determine whether a course is an ‘Excluded Course for
ABSTUDY purposes’ or not and is the first step towards assessing whether
the course is an approved course for the purposes of ABSTUDY. See the
References page in Approved courses of study for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY
Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) for a link to the Student Assistance (Educational
Institutions and Courses) Determination.

Mainstream courses

A mainstream course is a course available to all members of the
Australian community. The majority of mainstream courses, approved under
the Ministerial Determination, are also Approved courses of study for
ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC).

If a course is not an Excluded Course and meets the requirements of the
Ministerial Determination, it is an ABSTUDY ‘mainstream course’ and
therefore is an approved course. If a course is not available to all
members of the Australian community, or doesn’t meet the requirements of
the Ministerial Determination as outlined in Approved courses of study
for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and Assistance
for Isolated Children (AIC), it is normally considered to be an excluded
course for the purposes of ABSTUDY.

Courses that would otherwise be Excluded Courses, either because they
are not available to all members of the Australian community or don't
meet the requirements of the Ministerial Determination, may be able to
be approved ABSTUDY courses if they are Indigenous special courses.

Indigenous special courses

Courses that are not available to all members of the Australian
community are normally Excluded Courses for ABSTUDY purposes. Courses
not accredited or conducted by a non-registered education provider are
also normally Excluded Courses.

An exception to these exclusions applies to Indigenous special courses.

Note: if a course is being assessed to see if it is an Indigenous
special course but is an Excluded Course for any other reason, it cannot
be approved for ABSTUDY. However if the course is accredited by an
education provider, or relevant State/Territory or Australian Government
authority (that is, Australian Skills Quality Authority) it can be an
approved course for other student payments and the student should test
their eligibility for them.

The decision to approve Indigenous special courses, is made by the Level
3 ABSTUDY Policy Helpdesk in conjunction with the Course Assessment and
Liaison Officers (CALO).

Startup Year Courses

Students doing a Startup Year Course, to be eligible for ABSTUDY must
be:

-   enrolled in the course, and
-   selected for a STARTUP-HELP loan by their higher education provider

See Startup Year Courses for more information.

Full-time or part-time courses

Both a mainstream and Indigenous special course (other than those
approved by a correctional services authority for a student in lawful
custody) can be approved either as a full-time course or as a part-time
course. This is determined by the content and structure of the course.
The level of study load a student undertakes in a course is not related
to the approval of a course as either full-time or part-time.
Entitlements available to a student undertaking a full-time study load
are only available in courses that are approved as full-time courses.

The Resources page contains a link to StudyAssist.

Related links

Claiming ABSTUDY

Assessing ABSTUDY claims

Processing arrangements for ABSTUDY claims and enquiries

Accepting and checking ABSTUDY claims and forms

Processing an ABSTUDY
claimhttps://ourblueprint.internal.dept.local/blueprint
documents/students-and-trainees/010-02020060-01.html

Assessing the ABSTUDY Additional Information from (SY023)

Assessing Form m (SY031) for ABSTUDY Additional Incidentals Allowance
Claim

Rejecting an ABSTUDY claim

Calculating the start date for ABSTUDY

Late commencement of course for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY Pensioner Education
Supplement (PES), Austudy, PES and Youth Allowance (YA)

ABSTUDY eligibility and requirements

Approval of a course as full-time or part-time for ABSTUDY

Approved courses of study for Youth Allowance (YA), Austudy and
Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Approved courses of study for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY Pensioner Education
Supplement (PES) and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

Determining who should be the ABSTUDY applicant

Startup Year Courses

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
