
Activity Agreements for Youth Allowance (YA) students 010-06090000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines when an Activity Agreement for YA students is
required.

On this Page:

Activity agreements

The purpose of the Activity Agreement for a student is to detail the
steps they must undertake in order to comply with their obligations in
meeting the activity test. YA students may be required to enter into an
Activity Agreement if they:

-   have withdrawn from a course before completion, without any
    exceptional circumstances applying, and they wish to undertake
    another course at the same level that is greater than 12 months in
    duration, or
-   are a YA secondary school student who has had more than 5 days of
    unapproved absences in a school term

If a secondary school student has entered into an Activity Agreement as
a result of having excessive unapproved absences, and they subsequently
fail to satisfy the terms of the Activity Agreement, (that is, has more
than five unapproved absences in a subsequent school term), a
participation failure may apply.

Note: customers in receipt of YA as an Australian Apprentice are not
required to negotiate an Activity Agreement.

For further information on Activity Agreements see:

-   Negotiating Activity Agreements for Youth Allowance (YA) secondary
    students with unapproved absences
-   Negotiating an Activity Agreement for Youth Allowance (YA) students
    returning to study after discontinuing a previous course
-   Negotiating a Job Plan for a Youth Allowance (YA) customer who
    reaches the allowable time in their current course

Generating an activity agreement for a full-time student

In some circumstances YA tertiary students will be presented with a YA
Activity Agreement within their new online claim; see Negotiating an
Activity Agreement for YA students returning to study for more
information on automated YA Activity Agreements. These YA Activity
Agreements can be found within the online claim in Process Direct.

Manual YA Activity Agreements can be found within the Manage Activity
Agreements for Students screen in the Student Activity Agreement
workflow in Customer First.

The Resources page contains Activity Agreement templates for secondary
and tertiary YA students.

Contents

Negotiating Job Plans for under 18 year old at risk customers

Negotiating Activity Agreements for Youth Allowance (YA) secondary
students with unapproved absences

Negotiating an Activity Agreement for Youth Allowance (YA) students
returning to study after discontinuing a previous course

Negotiating a Job Plan for a Youth Allowance (YA) customer who reaches
the allowable time in their current course

Related links

Activity test for Youth Allowance (YA) students

Activity test for Youth Allowance (YA) trainees

Reviewing Job Plans for under 18 year old at risk customers

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
