
Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) 010-03040040

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the eligibility criteria for Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Pensioner Education Supplement (PES).
Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme additional PES payment
helps with the educational costs of families with children who are
unable to attend an appropriate state school because of geographic
isolation or special health-related or educational needs.

Eligibility criteria

To qualify for AIC PES, general AIC eligibility criteria must be met for
the applicant and student.

The student must also:

-   be undertaking approved study at primary or equivalent ungraded
    level
-   be receiving Disability Support Pension (DSP) or Parenting Payment
    Single (PPS), and
-   qualify for either Boarding Allowance (BA), Second Home Allowance
    (SHA) or Distance Education Allowance (DED) if they were not
    receiving a pension.

Qualification relies primarily upon receipt of an income support
payment. Receipt of the payment must be verified before PES assessment
can proceed.

DSP and PPS customers

Students receiving Disability Support Pension (DSP) or Parenting Payment
(PPS) who are studying full-time at primary or equivalent ungraded level
may receive PES under AIC until they turn 21.

Secondary students (and tertiary students) receiving DSP or PPS who are
aged at least 16 may apply for ABSTUDY PES, or PES, whichever is
appropriate.

ABSTUDY PES

Secondary or tertiary students of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
descent should be advised that PES payments are available under the
ABSTUDY Scheme. There are some differences in the additional payments
available and the student's circumstances should be considered and
sufficient information provided to ensure the student can make an
informed decision.

Related links

Residence requirements for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Age requirements for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Australian Government Assistance other than Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) Scheme received by applicant or student

Isolation conditions for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Approved studies for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

Determining who can be the applicant for Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) Scheme purposes

Eligibility for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme allowances

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) qualifications

ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) qualifications

Cancellation of, or changes to, qualifying payment for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
