
Assessing and coding a transfer to Austudy or Youth Allowance (YA) student claim from another payment 010-20020548

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

For Service Officers trained in Students processing.

This document outlines how to assess and code a transfer to Austudy or
Youth Allowance (YA) student from another income support payment.

Requirement for a claim

A claim must be lodged for Youth Allowance (YA) or Austudy if the
customer wants to transfer to either of these payments.

Transfer date

The transfer date for a YA or Austudy claim depends on a customer's
circumstances and the payment the customer is transferring from. It may
be the date the claim is lodged, the day after previous study ended, the
study start date or date paid to plus 1 day, depending on payment
qualification and what is most beneficial for the customer. See:

-   Satisfying the activity test for Youth Allowance (YA) by undertaking
    full-time study
-   Activity Test for Austudy

Sometimes, a customer may qualify for YA or Austudy as a student and
another income support payment at the same time.

Pensioner Education Supplement

In some cases, customers receiving qualifying payments for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES) may apply for YA or Austudy by mistake,
instead of Pensioner Education Supplement. It may be more beneficial to
remain on the existing payment. See Identifying the most beneficial
payment for students or Australian Apprentices.

Payment delivery day

When a transfer without a break from another payment to YA or Austudy
occurs, the same fortnight end-date is maintained, but the day the
payment is received may change.

Concession entitlements

Eligible customers may receive payments or concession cards from the
date they submit a complete claim, unless they are identified as
vulnerable. See Intent to claim and vulnerable customers.

YA and Austudy customers are automatically entitled to a Health Care
Card (HCC). When transferring from a current payment with a HCC, the
system automatically determines which concession card is the most
beneficial to the customer.

If a customer currently holds a Low Income Health Care Card (LIC) or
another type of concession card, the customer can continue to use the
card until the expiry date or until they receive a HCC.

Customers transferring from YA (job seeker) keep their current HCC and
receive a new card when it expires.

Approved study for job seekers

Under the New Employment Services Model (NESM), study information will
no longer appear in a customer's Job Plan. From 1 July 2022, job seekers
can self-declare study through their Workforce Australia Online account.
Self-declared study information can be viewed on the Point Based
Activation Summary (PBAS) Dashboard in Process Direct. Employment
Service Providers may approve study for short courses. This can be
viewed on the Activity and Exemption Summary (AEX) screen.

COVID-19 impacts for customers transferring to a student payment from a payment with mutual obligations

During different stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, mutual obligations
were suspended for some customers.

Customers completing study and getting a mutual obligation payment such
as JobSeeker Payment (JSP) may not have study included in a Job Plan, on
the PBAS dashboard or on the AEX screen during these times. To identify
if a JSP customer has reduced or suspended mutual obligation
requirements, see Altered processes and mutual obligation requirements
for job seekers due to coronavirus (COVID-19) response.

The Resources page contains a link to the National Course Approvals sub
site and forms.

Related links

Transfer to Austudy or Youth Allowance (YA) (student) from another
payment

Youth Allowance and Austudy students and Australian Apprentices online
claims and Assisted Customer Claims

Youth Allowance (YA) qualifications for students and Australian
Apprentices

Initial contact with students or Australian Apprentices claiming Austudy

Initial contact with students or Australian Apprentices claiming Youth
Allowance (YA)

Identifying the most beneficial payment for students or Australian
Apprentices

Personal Income Test and Income Bank for ABSTUDY, Austudy and Youth
Allowance (YA) students and Australian Apprentices

Intent to claim and vulnerable customers

Calculating the start day for Austudy and Youth Allowance (YA) students
and Australian Apprentices claims

Calculating the start day for a transferee

Part-time or full-time study as an approved activity for JobSeeker
Payment (JSP)

Carer Payment (CP) and Carer Allowance (CA) carer undertakes paid
employment, self-employment, voluntary work, education or training
activities

Part-time or full-time study as an approved activity for Parenting
Payment (PP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
