
Home schooling arrangements for Youth Allowance (YA), Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) and Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) 010-06070090

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to assess whether a customer who is
undertaking home-based schooling satisfies the YA activity test or the
approved course requirements for AIC as a full-time student. It also
outlines the procedure for assessing whether a customer who is
undertaking home-based schooling is a full-time or concessional study
load student for Pensioner Education Supplement (PES).

Home schooling and YA or PES

YA is not intended to provide assistance to families who choose to
withdraw their children from a formal school setting without considering
the requirements of the State/Territory education authorities that grant
education qualifications. However, YA and PES is available for
home-based schooling where the relevant State/Territory Government
school education authority has given specific approval for the student
to undertake home study. The authority must confirm that the study is
full-time and conforms with, and will be credited towards, the secondary
qualification accredited by that authority.

In some cases, where education authority approval has not been given, YA
or PES is available for home schooling where the student is:

-   formally registered at a secondary school recognised for YA purposes
-   studying accredited subjects, and
-   undertaking a study load deemed to be full-time by the school

Home schooling and AIC

A primary or secondary student undertaking home-based schooling
satisfies the AIC study requirements for the payment of Distance
Education Allowance if:

-   their course of home tuition has been formally approved as being a
    satisfactory alternative to a state-provided education by the
    education authority in the state or territory in which they live,
    and
-   they are undertaking full-time studies in the approved course

Note: there is no requirement for the education authority to accredit
home schooling towards any primary or secondary qualifications in the
state or territory.

Certificate of exemption from home schooling registration

Some states and/or territories may grant a certificate of exemption from
home schooling registration.

The certificate of exemption is regarded as appropriate registration,
enrolment and evidence of full time study load for the purposes of home
schooling.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
