-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the study and training requirements for ABSTUDY.
This includes course approval, study load concessions and the ABSTUDY
activity test.

Study requirements

Students may receive ABSTUDY if they are enrolled in and studying an
approved course. They must also be:

-   studying full-time (undertaking at least 75 per cent of the normal
    full-time study load of the course) or
-   receiving an approved study load concession

Secondary school students must participate in full-time study. This
includes full daily program attendance. If they have more than 5
unapproved absences from school in a term, they may need to enter into
an ABSTUDY Activity Agreement (ABAA).

In terms of attendance, tertiary and secondary non-schooling students
simply need to meet the education institution's course requirements.

See Assessing study load requirements.

The Process page provides common study requirement procedures. They are
grouped according to the student's situation.

Student changes from full-time to part-time studies

Where a student changes from full-time to part-time studies, ABSTUDY may
remain payable in certain circumstances.

The Resources page has a table describing what full-time study load
requirements are for different students.

Contents

Home schooling arrangements for ABSTUDY

ABSTUDY Standard Hostels Agreement

ABSTUDY annual board, tuition and scholarship details

Defining level of study for special schools

Eligibility for student payments when enrolled in Open Universities
Australia

Approved courses of study for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY Pensioner Education
Supplement (PES) and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)

How to determine if a course is approved for ABSTUDY purposes

Approval of a course as full-time or part-time for ABSTUDY

Defining levels of tertiary study

Approved short courses and student payment eligibility

Approved non-high school secondary study

Approved distance education/external study

Effect of late starting courses of study on continuing payments for
ABSTUDY

Effect of articulated short courses of study on continuing payment

Student intending to undertake a course at Honours level

Assessing study load requirements

Disregarding previous study for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY Pensioner Education
Supplement, Austudy and Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Determining progress and duration of assistance for ABSTUDY

Determining allowable time/reasonable time for a course of study

Determining minimum (normal) time for a course of study

Aggregation of study load

Effect on student payments of enrolment in more than one course or at
more than one educational institution

Effect of concurrent secondary and Vocational Education and Training
studies on student payments

Exemptions from study for ABSTUDY

Payment of ABSTUDY when a student or Australian Apprentice becomes
incapacitated

Assessing the disability study load concession for ABSTUDY and ABSTUDY
Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Increasing study load for ABSTUDY students102-07020160

Customer will not commence full-time study for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY
Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC) and AIC PES

Changing study load from full-time to part-time or concessional study
load for ABSTUDY or ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Assessing the two-thirds study load concession for ABSTUDY

Customer no longer an Australian Apprentice

Payment of ABSTUDY when a student is deferring or discontinuing study
before the end of the course

Proof of enrolment (POE) in a course of study

Study exemptions for ABSTUDY and Activity Test exemptions for Austudy
and Youth Allowance (YA)

Eligibility periods for full year courses of study for ABSTUDY, ABSTUDY
Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) AND PES

Effect of school-based apprenticeships on student payments

Referrals to Course Assessment and Liaison Officers (CALOs)

Changing or correcting course of study and/or educational institution
for ABSTUDY students

Coding ABSTUDY education details

Related links

Study requirements for ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
