
Effect on student payments of enrolment in more than one course or at more than one educational institution 010-07010140

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the effect of enrolment at more than one
educational institution and in more than one course on student payments
administered by Services Australia.

On this Page:

Sufficient study load

To be eligible for a student payment, students must have enrolled:

-   full time in a single course at one education institution, or
-   in 2 separate courses at 2 different education institutions (this
    may apply in limited circumstances)

The student must however meet special conditions and provide evidence to
the agency to determine if they still meet the student activity test.

Enrolled in more than one course

Students enrolled in more than one course at the same institution, may
have their courses treated as a single course for student payment
purposes where:

the education institution treats the units from the second course as
adding towards the completion of the primary course, and

the student:

-   is classed as full time when adding units from both courses
    together, and
-   has supplied evidence to the agency to confirm this arrangement

Enrolled at more than one institution

Where a student is enrolled at more than one education institution, they
may be considered a full time student. See the Process page for where
this occurs:

Note: study in subjects that are unrelated to the first course cannot be
counted toward the study load. Also, credit for previous study cannot be
counted as part of the study load requirement for a course.

Cross institutional study

In some cases, students may undertake a semester of full-time study at
an institution other than the institution where they commenced their
original study. This is known as 'cross institutional' study. The
original institution (home institution) may not maintain the student on
their current enrolment records while they are undertaking study at the
other institution (host institution). However, they will be enrolled at
the host institution and be given a new student ID number for that
institution.

This study will be recognised as approved study for student payments
providing the student:

-   obtains approval from their original institution that study at the
    host institution will be accredited to their original course, and
    evidence is provided from either education institution to confirm
    this, and
-   undertakes at least 75% of a normal amount of full-time study of an
    approved course at an approved institution, or
-   meets one of the concessional study load rules that may apply to the
    specific student payment

The Resources page contains examples of students studying in more than
one course or at more than one institution.

Related links

Approved courses of study for Youth Allowance (YA), Austudy and
Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

Assessing study load requirements

Effect of concurrent secondary and Vocational Education and Training
studies on student payments

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
