
Services provided by practice nurses and registered Aboriginal health workers for Medicare assessing 011-42040020

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

For Coronavirus (COVID-19) information relating to MBS items, see
Temporary Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) items in response to
Coronavirus (COVID-19).

This document outlines services provided by practice nurses and
registered Aboriginal health workers for Medicare assessing.

On this Page:

Practice nurse and Aboriginal health workers items

Practice nurses and Aboriginal health workers have access to Medicare
Benefits Schedule (MBS) items 10983, 10984, 10986, 10987 and 10997.

Aboriginal health workers have access to a further 2 items, 10988 and
10989.

Practice nurse services not covered under items 10983, 10984, 10986,
10987 and 10997 may be covered under the Workforce Incentive Program
(WIP) - Practice Stream.

Who can claim

Items numbers 10986, 10987, 10988, 10989 and 10997 can only be claimed
by a medical practitioner other than a specialist or consultant
physician, where the practice nurse or registered Aboriginal health
worker has provided the service, on behalf of the medical practitioner.

If the medical practitioner sees a patient prior to the patient being
treated by the practice nurse or registered Aboriginal health worker
(under items 10986, 10987, 10988, 10989 or 10997), the medical
practitioner is also able to claim for their own professional services
under the appropriate Medicare item, for example, item 23.

Who cannot claim

The practice nurse or registered Aboriginal health worker items cannot
be claimed by the practice nurse or registered Aboriginal health worker.
Nor can the items be claimed by a specialist or consultant physician.

Note: the item numbers can only be claimed by the medical practitioner
for services performed on their behalf by a practice nurse or registered
Aboriginal health worker with the appropriate qualifications and
training in the state/territory in which they work.

DVA

The immunisation and wound management items are available under the
Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) arrangements.

General practitioners (GP) that treat a patient under DVA arrangements
are able to claim items 10986 to 10997 in the same way they currently
claim existing Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) items.

Bulk billing requirements

Practice nurse or registered Aboriginal health worker items are not
required to be bulk billed. Where these items are bulk billed, all of
the conditions of the additional bulk bill incentives payment items must
be met.

The Resources page contains definitions of terms referred to throughout
this document and details of the claimable practice nurse or registered
Aboriginal Health worker items. It also contains a link to the Workforce
Incentive Program (WIP) - Practice Stream on the Services Australia
website.

Related links

Telehealth Program for Medicare

Practice Incentives Program (PIP) and Workforce Incentive Program
(WIP) - Practice Stream

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
