
Assistance at operations assessing rules in Medicare 011-42060020

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines multiple examples of assistance at operations
assessing rules for Medicare.

On this Page:

Assistance at operations

Medicare benefits are payable for assistant surgeons who provide support
during operations to 1 or more principle surgeons.

MBS items for providing assistance at operations are listed in Category
3, group T9 of the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS). The item range is
51300 – 51318.

The Resources page has more information about each of the items and a
link to MBS Online.

MBS rules for providing assistance at operations

Medicare benefits are payable for assistance rendered at a surgical
operation or combination of operations.

Payment of benefits for assistance relating to surgical operations is
subject to the following rules:

the assistance must be rendered by a medical practitioner other than
the:

-   surgeon
-   anaesthetist, or
-   assistant anaesthetist; that is, the medical practitioner can act in
    1 capacity only at the operation

only 1 benefit amount is payable regardless of the number of
practitioners who assisted at the surgery

Medicare benefits for assistant services are only available for surgical
items (group T8) that have ASSIST in the item descriptor (except items
51306, 51312, 51315 and 51318)

the assistant item billed to Medicare is dependent on the schedule fee
for the surgical items preformed

surgical item restrictions will also determine which assistant item can
be billed (the multiple operation rule applies)

Claims for assistance at surgery items must include the relevant
surgical item(s) performed by the principle surgeon(s).

Items 51300 and 51303 – levels of benefit

Health professionals can claim item 51300 or 51303 depending on the
schedule fee(s) for the surgical item(s) they assisted with.

Check MBS Online or QITI for the thresholds of each item.

Assisting multiple surgeons (conjoint surgery)

There are a number of items in the MBS that relate to combined
synchronous surgery, also known as 'conjoint surgery'.

This type of surgery involves 2 surgeons working concurrently (sometimes
from different specialities) to perform certain types of procedures.

The Resources page has examples of conjoint surgery and how claims
should be assessed.

Multiple assistant surgeons

Medicare benefits are only payable for 1 assistant surgeon per
operation. If multiple surgeons provide assistance on 1 occasion they
will have to arrange payment between them.

Assistance at caesarean section (items 51306 and 51309)

There are 2 specific items that provide benefits for assistance at a
caesarean section delivery. The general rules for assistant surgeon
benefits apply to these items.

-   51306 - Assistance at a delivery involving a Caesarean section. The
    item has a set fee and benefit
-   51309 - Assistance at a series or combination of operations which
    are identified by the word 'Assist' and assistance at a delivery
    involving Caesarean section

Assistance at interventional obstetric services (item 51312)

Item 51312 can be claimed for assisting at interventional obstetric
services under items 16606 to 16615 and 16627.

Claims for item 51312 must include the relevant obstetric services
item(s) (16606 – 16615 and 16627).

Assistance at cataract and intraocular lens surgery (items 51315 and 51318)

Benefits for item 51315 are payable for assistance at cataract and
intraocular lens surgery. Item 51318 can be claimed where the
requirements of the item descriptor are met.

Claims for items 51315 and 51318 must include the relevant surgical
item(s).

Assistance at oral and maxillofacial services (51800 and 51803)

Medical and approved dental practitioners can assist during oral and
maxillofacial operations.

Items 51800 and 51803 can be claimed by approved dental practitioners
for assisting at relevant operations under Category 4 of the MBS.

Items 51300 and 51303 can be claimed by Medical practitioners for
providing assistance at oral and maxillofacial operations.

Claims for these items must include the relevant surgical item(s)
(Category 4 where the item has ‘Assist’ in the descriptor).

The Resources page contains examples to assist understand assistance at
operations and assessing rules for Medicare.

Related links

Surgical operations assessing rules in Medicare

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
