[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines what Medicare benefit tax statements are and how
they can be requested.

On this Page:

Medicare benefit tax statements

A Medicare benefit tax statement is a listing of medical charges and
Medicare benefits paid to those listed on a nominated Medicare card in a
particular financial year. The statements were to assist customers to
claim the net medical expenses tax offset (NMETO).

On 14 May 2013, the government announced in the 2013-14 Budget the NMETO
will be phased out and would not be claimable from the 2015-16 financial
year.

Taxpayers who received the offset in their 2012-13 income tax assessment
were eligible to claim the offset for the 2013-14 income year (if they
had eligible out-of-pocket medical expenses above the relevant claim
threshold). Similarly, those who received the tax offset in their
2013-14 income tax assessment were eligible to claim the offset in
2014-15 (the last year the NMETO could be claimed).

Medicare benefit tax statements for financial years before 1 July 2015
may still be required for customers to claim NMETO from the Australian
Taxation Office (ATO) but is restricted as Medicare claims history is
culled. Customers can only request Medicare benefit tax statements for
the following financial years: 2012-13, 2013- 14 and 2014-15. This
request is made via an email to Release of Information. The Resources
page contains a link to contact details.

Requests received must be authorised by a delegate of Chief Executive
Medicare before being processed. Information will only be released in
accordance with legislation. See Release of information for Medicare for
more information.

Customer enquiries about NMETO should be directed to the Australian
Taxation Office (ATO) on 132 861.

The Resources page contains a link to the Request for a Medicare History
Statement form.

Amounts not listed on Medicare benefit tax statement

Services for simplified billing and bulk billing are not listed on the
Medicare benefit tax statement, as the patient has not incurred an out
of pocket expense.

The Medicare benefit tax statement does not contain:

details of any bulk bill claims (payee code 6)

details of in-hospital claims made to Medicare via the Simplified
Billing claiming channel (payee code 8) as billing agents and health
funds issue separate statements reporting financial details of
in-hospital care

miscellaneous items, Note: Service Officers must not record any details
of miscellaneous items appearing on an account or receipt

rejected items that are not rejected with reason codes (RSN) 108, 127,
159, 160, 164, 170, 171, 179, 206, 215, 232, 233, 236

rejected items that are not rejected with restated lines:

-   816 (underpayment of benefit previously paid)
-   818 (overpayment of benefit previously paid) or
-   821 (no change to benefit previously paid)

The Resources page contains a link to the Request for a Medicare benefit
tax statement form (MS010) and more details about the services available
through each request channel.

Related links

Release of information for Medicare

Power of Attorney, Guardianship, Administrative Orders and Authorised
Representative for Medicare

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
