
Unapproved pharmacies (non-Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme pharmacies) 012-61070000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about unapproved pharmacies
(non-Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme pharmacies) and switching.

On this Page:

Definition of unapproved pharmacy

For Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) and Repatriation Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme (RPBS) purposes (supply and claiming), an unapproved
pharmacy is licensed under relevant state or territory legislation to
operate as a pharmacy business at particular premises, but:

-   is not approved to supply pharmaceutical benefits under the National
    Heath Act 1953, and
-   does not have a PBS Pharmacy Approval Number

Unapproved pharmacies can only dispense medicines listed on the PBS and
RPBS as non-PBS (private) supplies.

Customers using unapproved pharmacies

If a person chooses to have their prescription supplied at an unapproved
pharmacy, the supply is considered to be outside the Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme (PBS) and Repatriation Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme
(RPBS). Once an unapproved pharmacy is used to dispense a valid PBS/RPBS
prescription:

-   that supply, and all subsequent repeats, must be supplied as non-PBS
    (private) supplies
-   the customer will not be able to obtain a refund from Services
    Australia for any amount paid over and above the PBS co-payment for
    a medicine, and
-   the payment made for that medicine will not count towards the
    customer’s PBS Safety Net Threshold

If the customer wants the remaining repeats on the prescription that was
previously dispensed by an unapproved pharmacy to be dispensed under the
PBS/RPBS, they will need to go back to their prescriber and ask for a
new prescription. The new prescription will then need to be taken to an
approved pharmacy for dispensing under the PBS/RPBS.

Customers using both approved and unapproved pharmacies

If an approved pharmacy is always used to dispense an original
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) and Repatriation Pharmaceutical
Benefits Scheme (RPBS) prescription, and any subsequent repeats, the
customer may choose to 'switch' between PBS/RPBS and private dispensing
at any time.

Switching is where a customer has all supplies of a PBS/RPBS
prescription dispensed at an approved pharmacy and chooses to have some
supplies provided on the PBS/RPBS and others provided privately to take
advantage of being offered medicine at a discounted price.

Once an unapproved pharmacy is used to dispense an eligible PBS/RPBS
prescription, that supply and all subsequent repeats must be supplied as
non-PBS (private) supplies.

The Resources page contains examples of original prescription dispensed
at an unapproved pharmacy, unapproved pharmacy used for the first
repeat, unapproved pharmacy used to dispense last repeat and approved
pharmacy used to dispense all supplies (but customer elects to have
first repeat dispensed as a private prescription to receive a discount,
or similar).

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
