
Medical services processing for Veterans' Affairs Processing (VAP) 012-17060000

-   Background
-   Process
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about medical services processing for
Veterans' Affairs Processing (VAP).

On this Page:

MCRP item processing

From 1 November 2018 the Medicare Claims Review Panel (MCRP) has been
dissolved removing the requirement for health professionals to seek
approval for MCRP items for services performed after 1 November 2018.

Any service for an MCRP item performed before 1 November 2018 still
requires approval by the MCRP before a benefit can be paid.

For further information regarding the dissolution of the MCRP, see
Medicare Claims Review Panel (MRCP).

A MCRP item required a provider to demonstrate a clinical need for the
service before a benefit was payable. These items included in their
description the phrase ‘where it can be demonstrated that’

MCRP items were:

-   11222, 11225
-   12207, 12215, 12217
-   14124
-   21965, 21997
-   30214
-   32501
-   42771, 42783, 42786, 42789, 42792
-   45019, 45020
-   45528, 45557, 45558, 45585, 45586, 45588
-   45639

When a MCRP item is claimed by a provider for an eligible veteran, the
3-MCRP PND online message will display.

Processing in-hospital services

When a provider treats an admitted patient at a recognised hospital, the
provider will indicate the treatment location on their invoice.

The treatment location H (for hospital) must be keyed if the
invoice/claim contains any of the following indicators:

-   The words 'in-patient' or 'admitted patient'
-   An asterisk (*) alongside the item number
-   The words 'Service performed in <name of hospital>’
-   Claim submitted with a hash (#)

Assistance at surgery

VAP process assistance at surgery items as directed in the Medicare
Benefits Schedule (MBS).

Items covering operations that are eligible for benefits for surgical
assistance have been identified by the inclusion of the word ‘Assist’ in
the item description. Benefits are not payable for surgical assistance
with procedures which have not been correctly identified, for example:

-   surgical items that have not been paid or notated, reject with RSN
    690
-   surgical items that do not have an ‘Assist’ notation, reject with
    RSN 164
-   if surgical items are paid or notated, calculate the fee by applying
    the multiple operation rule. Use PI 58 and key the total amount for
    the surgery in the fee field

When processing an assistant item where the surgery includes non-MBS
medical procedure UR372, the fee to be paid needs to be calculated
manually.

See also: Assistance at operations assessing rules in Medicare.

Note: assistant surgeon items will only pay at 20% of the fee paid to
the surgeon regardless of the location claimed. For example, if the
surgeon has claimed services as in rooms, the assistant will be paid at
the in rooms rate regardless of the location stated on their claim.

Laparoscopic robotic assisted radical prostatectomy - item UR372

Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) has created a medical item for
laparoscopic robotic assisted radical prostatectomy. Business rules for
this item are equivalent to MBS item 37210/37211 when the procedure is
performed using a special robotic arm.

Some things to note for this item are:

-   the benefit is paid to the surgeon for undertaking the procedure
    only
-   UR372 and 37210/37211 should not be paid for the same theatre
    admission
-   DVA may approve a high charge MT item that is payable to the same
    surgeon
-   a prior approval record is not required for the payment of a UR372

Failed and abandoned surgery

For further information on the assessing rules for abandoned surgery,
assistance at abandoned surgery and abandoned anaesthetics see
Discontinued and abandoned surgery assessing rules in Medicare.

In addition, the following rules apply to Veterans' Affairs Processing
(VAP):

-   The abandoned item must be keyed immediately following, and on the
    same voucher as the associated procedure item/s
-   Pended Department of Veterans’ Affairs (DVA) claims for abandoned
    procedure items will return online message ‘3-DVA ITM?’
-   Payment can be made on the supervisor screen (VASI) using PI 18

Amputation services

VAP process amputation services in accordance with the Medicare Benefits
Schedule (MBS) rulings.

See also: Surgical operations assessing rules in Medicare

Referral periods for specialists

The general practitioner is regarded as the primary source of referrals
and a standard referral from a GP is valid for 12 months. Where a
referral originates from a specialist or a consultant physician, the
referral is valid for 3 months, or for in-patient stays over 3 months,
the referral is valid for the duration of the hospital admission.

Exemptions to specialist referral rules

Some specialists work within their specialty and can also provide
services as a general practitioner. Only specialists or consultant
physicians who are also general practitioners are eligible for dual
recognition.

Speciality code 165 is added to the provider when they submit a written
request for dual recognition to Services Australia's Provider
Eligibility section. Providers with specialty code C01 165 (dual
recognition for referrals) are exempt from the 3 month rule and normal
referral arrangements apply for these providers. Specialists with
specialty code C01 165 will be able to refer patients for a specific
period or indefinitely.

Audiologists recognised by DVA

On 1 November 2012, the Department of Health and Aged Care introduced
new Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) Audiology items which are payable
to providers who have specialty code C68 170. From 18 November 2012, DVA
recognises this provider’s specialty and MBS Audiology items can be
claimed for DVA patients.

The items payable to audiologists are - 10952, 82300, 82306, 82309,
82312, 82315, 82318, 82324, 82327, and 82332.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Practitioners recognised by DVA

DVA recognises Aboriginal health providers with specialty codes C01 422
or C01 634. MBS items 10950, 10956, 81300 and 81325 have been added to
the DVA schedule.

DVA fees for medical services for VAP

Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS)

VAP assess claims for Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) medical items in
accordance with the MBS business rules. Diagnostic Imaging and Pathology
services are paid at 100% of the MBS schedule fee. The Resources page
contains a link to the MBS Online.

Rural Enhancement Incentive (REI)

The Rural Enhancement Initiative (REI) program enables medical
practitioners who provide services to veterans in identified rural
public hospitals to receive 10% loading on top of the normal Medicare
Benefits Schedule (MBS) fee. The initiative applies in NSW, VIC, SA and
WA. Practitioners must have a location specific provider number for the
hospital(s) and register for the program with the Department of
Veterans' Affairs (DVA).

A specialty code C01 300 is added to these provider locations to
identify REI payment. Providers eligible for the REI performing
inpatient consultations are paid at 110% of the MBS schedule fee with
fees rounded up or down to the nearest 5 cents. If the provider is also
a registered DVA Local Medical Officer (LMO), the LMO incentive (115%)
is added to the REI fee. REI is not payable for items listed in the
Repatriation Medical Fee Schedule (RMFS) or the Relative Value Guide
(RVG). The REI is currently payable under items 4, 24, 37 and
47.Providers with queries about the REI can be referred to DVA.

Local Medical Officer (LMO)

The LMO Fee Schedule lists fees for medical attendances and
consultations provided by general practitioners participating in the
Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) LMO Scheme.LMOs are paid 115% of
the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) schedule (or where applicable the
Rural Enhancement Incentive loading) fee plus any relevant VAP.

The VAP is claimed using the Medicare bulk billing incentive item
numbers:

10990, 64990 and 74990 for non-rural location

Rural locations:

-   10991, 10992, 75855, 75856, 75857, 75858
-   64991, 64992, 64993, 64994, 64995
-   74991, 75861, 75862, 75862, 75864

LMO fees are rounded up to the nearest 5 cents.

The VAP is not payable on items provided to inpatients of a hospital or
day surgery. The Resources page contains a link to the LMO Fee Schedule.

Veterans Access Payment (VAP) Incentive Items – MT83 – MT89

DVA have introduced VAP incentive item numbers which replace new and
existing MBS incentive item numbers when claimed in conjunction with
telehealth services that have a DVA RMFS fee. Providers should claim the
appropriate VAP incentive item number MT83 – MT89 for the Modified
Monash Model (MMM) region of which the service was rendered in.

Where the VAP incentive item MT83 – MT89 restricts, Service Officers
should check that here is an eligible associated and payable Telehealth
service for each MT incentive item that is being claimed.

The MMM region of a Provider Location can be identified by searching
under the Provider Location tab in PDS.

The Resources page contains more information on VAP incentive items MT83
– MT89

Repatriation Medical Fee Schedule (RMFS)

The RMFS lists fees for specialist attendances and consultations,
investigative and general medical procedures and notes separate fees for
'In Hospital' and 'Out of Hospital' treatment locations. Out of Hospital
item fees are calculated at 135% of the MBS schedule fees for
consultations and 140% of the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) benefit
for procedures.

Items listed on the RMFS do not attract the VAP or the Rural Enhancement
Initiative (REI) loading. The Resources page contains a link to RMFS fee
schedule.

Relative Value Guide (RVG) fees

Fees for anaesthetic services (items 20100-25205) are listed in the
Relative Value Guide (RVG) Fee Schedule. Items listed on the RVG do not
attract the VAP or the Rural Enhancement Initiative (REI) loading. The
Resources page contains a link to the RVG.

REI and LMO fee calculations

Where both the Rural Enhancement Initiative (REI) and Local Medical
Officer (LMO) fee applies, the REI fee is applied to the Medicare
Benefits Schedule (MBS) schedule fee and then the LMO fee is applied to
the total of the MBS and REI fees.

Derived fee calculations

To calculate a derived fee for up to 6 patients:

-   divide the Group fee amount by the number of patients
-   add the Base item fee to the above calculated amount

When 7 or more patients are seen, add 1 per patient amount to the Base
item fee.

Note: Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) benefits and derived fees are
rounded up or down to the nearest 5 cents. Quarter cents are always
rounded down.

Medical accounts with GST

Goods and Services Tax (GST) does not apply and is not payable for any
medical services payable by VAP.

Any claims received for medical reports that are not itemised, or for
items in the range DCC01-05 or DCN01-04 should be referred to Department
of Veterans' Affairs (DVA).

Any claims received for Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) or Non-MBS
Medical (A003, CN01-04, CP20-42, MT02-12, UR372, UP01-04, and UP11)
services listed on the fee schedules should be processed by VAP
Operations. Any GST charged should be ignored.

The Resources page contains the MCRP / Abandoned surgery approval
request form, current medical fee schedules, DVA fee types and fees
paid, VAP processing contact details and a link to the DVA website.

Contents

Process pathology services for Veterans’ Affairs Processing (VAP)

Repatriation medical fee schedule summary for Veterans’ Affairs
Processing (VAP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
