
Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service - Health Professionals 012-03000000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about the Healthcare Identifiers (HI)
Service. The HI Service is a national system for uniquely identifying
eligible healthcare providers and individuals (patients).

Government intent

The accurate identification of individuals is critical in all health
communication. Use of healthcare identifiers in medical information
provides a way for health professionals to more accurately match the
right records to the person being treated, and improve accuracy when
communicating information with other healthcare providers.

The Healthcare Identifiers Act 2010 specifies that healthcare
identifiers are to be used for healthcare and related management
purposes with penalties in place for misuse. The inclusion of healthcare
identifiers in a health record system or patient file does not change
when information about individuals is shared, but enables a much more
reliable way of referencing information, particularly in electronic
communications and information management systems.

The Resources page contains contact details and links to websites
relating to the HI Service.

Contents

Administration for Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service

Handle calls for Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service

Evidence of identity for Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service

Search for records in Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service

Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (Ahpra) and Healthcare
Identifiers (HI) Service

Professional associations and Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service

Contracted Service Provider (CSP) in Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service

General Supporting Organisation (GSO) records in Healthcare Identifiers
(HI) Service

Roles in the Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service

Healthcare Provider Identifier - Individual (HPI-I) in Healthcare
Identifiers (HI) Service

Healthcare Provider Identifier - Organisation (HPI-O) in Healthcare
Identifiers (HI) Service

Individual Healthcare Identifier (IHI) in Healthcare Identifiers (HI)
Service

Authentication required to access digital health

Evidence of identity processing for an individual in the Healthcare
Identifiers (HI) Service

Evidence of identity processing for an organisation in the Healthcare
Identifiers (HI) Service

Related links

Process online registration for Health Provider Identifier –
Organisation (HPI-O)

Healthcare Identifiers (HI) Service - Your Health

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
