
Fixed trusts set up before 7.30 pm on 9 May 2000 043-04110020

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information on fixed (non-discretionary) trusts
set up before 7:30 pm on 9 May 2000 and the effect on a customer's
income and assets assessment.

Assessment of assets of fixed trusts

Assessment of the assets of fixed trusts set up before 7:30 pm on 9 May
2000 is based on the fixed entitlements of the customer and the
assessment of the income on actual distributions to the customer. Fixed
trusts set up before 7:30 pm on 9 May 2000 have been excluded from the
definition of a private trust for trust and company purposes because the
assets of, and income distributed by, fixed trusts were already fully
assessable to the trust beneficiaries in the proportions fixed by the
trust deed.

If a fixed trust assessed under the pre 1 January 2002 old trust and
company rules makes a profit but does not distribute that profit then
there will be no income assessed. If the trust is wound up, then any
previous distributions made would continue to be assessed under section
1073 of the Social Security Act 1991.

If additional units are issued after 9 May 2000 then the unit trust will
be assessed under the new trust and company rules.

If existing units are bought and sold then the unit trust is still
assessed under the pre 1 January 2002 trust and company rules.

The trust deeds of some fixed trusts include an alteration of power. If,
after 7:30 pm on 9 May 2000, a customer:

-   transfers additional assets to the fixed trust
-   provides services to the fixed trust, or
-   alters the entitlements of the trust beneficiaries

then the new attribution rules will apply.

Where trust entitlements are re-fixed in limited circumstances, for
example following the death of a beneficiary, this will not result in
the trust being affected by the 1 January 2002 trust and companies
legislation.

Fixed trusts established after 7:30 pm on 9 May 2000 will be subject to
the post 1 January 2002 trust and companies legislation that is, treated
in the same manner as discretionary trusts.

Related links

Assessing assets from fixed trusts pre 1 January 2002

Assessing income from fixed trusts pre 1 January 2002

Assessment of assets for trusts and companies

Coding the T&C Miscellaneous Details (TRMD) screen

Genuine investors in private trusts and companies

Life interest in an asset or income

Protective and statutory trusts for persons unable to handle their own
affairs

Testamentary trusts

Trusts and companies - concessions and exceptions

Where a controller could not access trust capital and/or income as at
7:30 pm on 9 May 2000

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
