-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document explains the process for staff answering Proof of Life
Certificate (AUS061) phone enquiries.

Proof of Life Certificate (AUS061)

The AUS061 is used to make sure that a customer is still alive and
entitled to receive their pension. The form helps the agency confirm a
customer's identity and continuing eligibility while they are living
overseas.

Proof of life interventions

From December 2019, customers will need to provide a Proof of Life
Certificate every 2 years, if all the following apply:

-   They receive Age Pension, Disability Support Pension, or Carer
    Payment
-   They are 80 years old or above
-   They reside permanently overseas

A Proof of Life letter is sent to the customer requesting them to
complete and return a Proof of Life Certificate to Services Australia
within 91 days.

If the customer fails to respond to the request, the customer's payments
may be suspended pending a response. If the customer fails to respond
after a further 91 days the customer's payments may be cancelled and the
intervention finalised.

The AUS061 and Proof of Life intervention are processed by Compliance
Officers (COs).

Customer contact

Customers are provided the Centrelink International Services (CIS)
number on the letter issued with the AUS061. Calls to the CIS number
will be routed to the Compliance Team via the Interactive Voice Response
(IVR) option. The Compliance team will deal with the following
enquiries:

-   extensions to lodge the certificate
-   suspensions or cancellations if the certificate has not been
    returned
-   or where updates are needed because of the AUS061 (for example,
    customer has returned to Australia)

Note: the Compliance team will warm transfer all customer enquiries not
related to the Proof of Life (AUS061) intervention to the appropriate
queue, such as CIS, FAO, providing the connecting officer with the
details of the customer’s query.

Life certificates for Chilean pensioners in Australia

Chilean POL to be completed by CIS staff only.

Chilean pensioners must provide life certificates to the Chilean
authorities, but forms are not sent to customers in Australia.

As agreed with the Chilean authorities, customers who contact Services
Australia regarding suspension of Chilean pensions or requests for life
certificates from Chilean authorities may complete the Australian Proof
of Life Certificate 'Certificado de Supervivencia' (AUS061ES) form. The
completed AUS061ES intended for the Chilean authorities must not be
scanned and should be returned to Centrelink International Services
(CIS) via the internal mail. In this case, the original AUS061ES form
with an Australian liaison form must be sent by CIS staff to Chile. See
the Resources page for a link to the forms.

The Resources page has links to the AUS061ES in Spanish, the Australian
liaison form for Chile, and the Services Australia website.

Related links

Chile Agreement and foreign pension information

Agreement liaisons, NZ CICs and exchange of information

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
