
Changing the reason for leaving Australia or the length of an approved absence 061-03040030

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the procedure that can be used by a Service
Officer to change the reason for a customer's departure from Australia
(where a reason is necessary) or the end date for an approved absence.
It can also be used to update an absence if the customer is advising of
an approved reason for a restricted portability payment after the
absence has been recorded.

On this Page:

Notification of intended departure and return

The datalink with the Department of Home Affairs will generally advise
Centrelink when a customer leaves or returns to Australia. The system
will therefore record the correct departure and return dates for any
customer who has an active link with Department of Home Affairs.

However, if a customer receiving a restricted portability payment
requests portability of that payment after an absence has been recorded
for a reason other than an approved reason, or wants an increase in the
specific negotiated period for that payment, the Service Officer needs
to manually assess and record the change. Note: most of these changes
will need to be recorded by a Service Officer in International Services
(CIS).

Changes in travel details and impact on approved reason determinations

If a customer receiving a restricted portability payment has an approved
reason for the absence and actually leaves more than 3 days before or
after they initially advised, the approved absence will not apply to the
new departure date and payment will cease on departure except for
Disability Support Pension (DSP) customers whose payment will cease at
the end of their 4 weeks in a rolling 12 month period. The Service
Officer must therefore determine whether the approved reason still
applies and record the new departure date and reason again.

The Resources page contains contact details for Centrelink International
Services (CIS).

Related links

Cancelling a trip outside Australia or changing the departure date

Changing details of a child's travel to and/or from Australia

Changing the return date for an absence from Australia

Return to Australia procedures for service centre and Smart Centre staff
for non-pension payments and cards

Return to Australia procedures for service centre and Smart Centre staff
for pension payments

Return to Australia procedures for Centrelink International Services
(CIS) staff

Coding departures and returns for customers leaving Australia

Changing details of a customer's travel to and/or from Australia

Portability of payments

Returning to Australia

Coding the Country of Residence (CRES) screen

Discretion to extend portability period

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
