
Portability of payments 061-01000000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information on portability of payments, whether a
payment can continue while a customer is outside Australia. Travelling
outside Australia affects customers differently, depending on the
payment or concession type received and the length of the absence.

Planning an overseas trip

When a customer is planning to leave Australia to travel to or live in
another country, they should check how this might affect their:

-   payments
-   health care and
-   child support arrangements

Customers can check their circumstances and plans against the Services
Australia website. They can then decide whether to notify the agency of
their plans to travel. If a customer advises they are planning to
travel, staff must always use the Portability Script - Departures and
Returns to correctly code the absence from Australia. If the script is
not available due to technical issues, see Leaving Australia for links
to payment specific and concession card portability procedures.

Portability period

The portability period depends on the type of payment. Customers must
remain qualified for payment during their absence and, for some
payments, the customer must continue to meet the activity requirements

The portability period starts on the day the customer leaves Australia.
For portability purposes, a person is not considered to be in Australia
for any part of the day they departed Australia, regardless of the time
of departure. If the customer is travelling outside Australia on a
cruise the date of departure is the date the ship leaves the last
Australian port.

The day a person returns to Australia is not included as part of their
absence as they are considered to be in Australia on that day
(regardless of the time of return) and, therefore no longer affected by
portability. If they leave and return on the same day (for example,
airline crew) this is not considered a departure from Australia for
portability purposes.

Notification of intended departure and return

The Department of Home Affairs will generally advise Services Australia
when a Centrelink customer or child leaves or returns to Australia. The
portability of the payment is automatically assessed by the system,
regardless of whether the customer notified or not. Note: Department of
Home Affairs datalink activities should not be cancelled.

Services Australia uses the date of departure or arrival provided by the
Department of Home Affairs. If adversely affected, the customer can
provide evidence of alternative dates. The agency should consider
applying the alternative dates, if it is reasonable and results in a
beneficial outcome for the customer.

In many cases, customers do not need to advise the agency they are
leaving Australia temporarily or have returned from a temporary absence.
However, there are situations when customers should advise of a
departure before leaving Australia or contact when they have returned to
Australia.

In most cases, customers can notify of their departure from Australia
via the [] online Travelling outside of Australia service. If a
customer's circumstances are more complex they will be prompted to
contact the agency.

The website lists situations when customers must advise they are leaving
or returning to Australia. The Resources page has a link.

Portability Interview

Due to the complexity of portability rules, the Portability Script -
Departures and Returns must be used whenever a customer contacts about
leaving Australia even when customers do not need to advise the agency
(for example, if they are leaving Australia temporarily for less than 6
weeks).

The script will correctly code the absence from Australia, provide
advice to the customer, and record the conversation on the customer's
record.

Returning to Australia

In most cases if customers return from a short trip overseas and their
payment remains current, they do not need to notify that they have
returned to Australia.

When they return, contact is required if:

-   a payment or concession card was stopped while they were away and
    was not automatically restored when they returned from overseas
-   they are returning to live in Australia after living overseas
-   they are receiving their payment under an international agreement,
    or
-   they have been asked to provide evidence for their reason for travel
    or other documents

If the customer or child has an active Department of Home Affairs
datalink their return date should automatically update when they return
to Australia. Department of Home Affairs datalink activities should not
be cancelled. If it does not update automatically then it will need to
be recorded manually.

If the departure was not recorded, then the Portability Script -
Departures and Returns must be run, and the departure coding completed,
before the return to Australia can be recorded and assessed.

Restoration of payment on return to Australia

If a customer or child remains outside Australia after their payment has
stopped for a portability related reason, continuation of payment on
their return to Australia may be possible. Generally, their payment can
be automatically or manually restored if they return to Australia within
13 weeks of their payment stopping.

Payments that are portable

Most payments can be paid to a customer or for a child who is
temporarily overseas; that is, most payments are 'portable', at least in
some circumstances.

The rules are complicated about:

-   a payment's portability
-   how long a payment will be paid, and
-   what rate will be paid

Some payments are portable indefinitely; and are paid for as long as the
customer is overseas. This is the case even if the customer has chosen
to leave Australia to live in another country.

The rate of these payments may change after the customer has been
overseas for a while.

Many payments are portable for a limited time, often 6 weeks. The rate
of these payments will not usually change. They cannot be paid at all if
the customer has chosen to leave Australia to live in another country.

Families-related payments are generally affected if the customer's child
leaves Australia, even if the customer stays in Australia. These
payments are portable for a limited time, often 6 weeks. The rate of
these payments will not usually change. They cannot be paid at all if
the child has left Australia to live in another country.

Some payments are only portable if the customer leaves Australia for a
particular reason. For example to attend the funeral of a parent.
Specialist International Services staff will talk to the customer about
their circumstances. Portability for these payments will only be
approved for a limited period. The rate of these payments will not
usually change.

Concession cards are usually portable for a limited time, often 6 weeks.
They will be cancelled if the customer has chosen to leave Australia to
live in another country. Customers may be able to gain benefit while
overseas by presenting their Australian concession card. The overseas
agency decides which benefit they can receive.

If the customer goes to an agreement country and meets the transfer
requirements, they may be able to transfer to an international social
security agreement. They can then continue to receive payment. This is
relevant to customers with payments:

-   that are not portable for any of their absence outside Australia or
-   after the maximum portability period has been reached

Loans under the Home Equity Access Scheme (the Scheme) are not social
security payments. They are not subject to portability rules or
proportional portability. Payments under the Scheme can be paid overseas
as long as the customer meets and maintains eligibility for the Scheme.

It is possible for a customer to receive:

-   a pension or allowance and
-   the Scheme loan payments

The pension or allowance is subject to the normal rules of portability
and proportional portability of the pension or allowance they receive.

If the rate of payment is reduced due to proportional portability, the
Scheme loan payments continue to be paid while the customer is outside
Australia. This is the case even if the primary payment suspends or
cancels due to the proportional rate being nil.

The fortnightly loan rate automatically increases to compensate for the
reduced rate of payment. This is the case unless the customer has chosen
to receive a fixed loan amount each fortnight.

All payments continue to be affected by the rules and conditions that
apply inside Australia. For example, if an Age Pension customer (who has
been indefinitely portable at maximum rate) has a big lotto win their
pension may be reduced or cancelled by the means test.

Paying customers outside Australia

Once portability is established, payments may be made while the customer
is outside Australia:

-   into an Australian bank account
-   into an overseas bank account (for some countries), or
-   by cheque (for some countries where overseas bank account payments
    are not possible)

The method of delivery may vary depending on the length of the absence,
whether the departure is temporary, the country to which they are
travelling, and the type of payment the person is receiving.

The Resources page contains links the Services Australia website for
information about payments while outside Australia and travelling
overseas with Pharmaceutical Benefit Scheme (PBS) medicines.

Contents

Customers overseas on 20 September 2000

Customers overseas on 1 July 2004

Customers assessed under pre 1 July 2014 Australian Working Life
Residence (AWLR) rules

Discretion to extend portability period

Portability of add-ons

Portability of concession cards

Portability of payments paid under International Agreements

Proof of Life Certificate (AUS061) enquiries

Restricted portability for payments during overseas absences where
customer has special circumstances

Transfer to international social security agreements

Related links

Coding departures and returns for customers leaving Australia

Leaving Australia

Returning to Australia

View/Update overseas travel online

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
