
Customers overseas on 20 September 2000 061-01030000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about significant changes to the law
governing portability of Centrelink payments from 20 September 2000.
This procedure only applies to customers overseas before 1 July 2004 who
have not yet returned to Australia.

On this Page:

Customers returning on or after 1 July 2004

'Saved' customers returning to Australia on or after this date may be
affected by changes to the portability rules effective from 1 July 2004,
which will override these savings. Contact Centrelink International
Services (CIS) for more information.

Customers overseas immediately before 20 September 2000

All Centrelink customers who were overseas immediately before 20
September 2000 and who have not returned to stay in Australia for
greater than 26 weeks have their continuing portability determined using
the rules in force at that time. These are known as 'pre 20 September
2000 portability rules'. Customers departing Australia on or after 20
September 2000 have their portability determined under the current
rules.

A customer can return to Australia and then return overseas an unlimited
number of times without losing their savings provision as long as they
do not remain in Australia for more than 26 weeks during any return. If
the customer returns to Australia, stays for more than 26 weeks and
leaves Australia again, they will lose their savings provision and will
be subject to the current portability rules. It is important that
customers currently paid under the pre 20 September 2000 portability
rules contact Centrelink International Services (CIS) for accurate
information about the possible changes to their payments if they plan to
return to Australia at all and may possibly go overseas again in the
future.

Savings provisions

Although the savings provisions did apply to all customers, only Age
Pension and Disability Support Pension customers are still affected by
the savings provisions. This is because all other payments stopped or
had limited portability under the pre 20 September 2000 portability
rules and if they have not returned to Australia since, would no longer
be entitled to payment.

The savings provisions described above do not generally apply to
customers paid under an International Agreement because the portability
provisions for these people are governed by the Agreement.

Under the pre 20 September 2000 portability rules there were a number of
exemptions from being paid a proportional rate of pension. Most of these
exemptions were removed with the change in law (for example, an Age
Pension customer granted before 2 July 1986). Prior to 20 September
2000, any customer without an exemption could continue to receive
payment for 12 months of an overseas absence before cancellation or
proportionalisation of their pension. From 20 September 2000,
proportionalisation generally occurs after 26 weeks absence from
Australia.

Another benefit under the pre 20 September 2000 portability rules is
that, in certain circumstances, a customer could use their partner's (or
deceased partner's) working life residence if it was higher than their
own which meant they could receive a higher rate of pension. From 20
September 2000, a customer must use their own working life residence.

Add-ons (for example Rent Assistance, Pharmaceutical Allowance) are not
payable to customers paid under pre-20 September rules while they are
outside Australia and are only paid in limited circumstances to these
customers if they are temporarily returning to Australia.

Age Pension or DSP customer saved under 20/9/2000 savings provisions returned to Australia temporarily – unable to depart

Age Pension or Disability Support Pension (DSP) customers saved under
the 20 September 2000 savings provisions, who reside overseas, but are
temporarily in Australia and unable to travel due to unforeseen
circumstances, may be considered for an extension to retain their
savings provisions after 26 weeks.

If a customer would like to be assessed for a portability extension,
refer them to Centrelink International Services (CIS).

The Resources page has information on identifying if a customer is paid
under 20 September 2000 portability rules and action to be taken when an
affected customer returns to Australia.

Related links

Age Pension customer going overseas

Customers overseas on 1 July 2004

Discretion to extend portability period

Disability Support Pension (DSP) customer going overseas

Portability of add-ons

Returning to Australia

Travelling with or sending medicines overseas

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
