
State Seniors Cards 065-01050000

-   Background
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

The State Seniors Card is a program which provides seniors aged 60 years
and over, with savings on recreational, health, business and State
Government benefits throughout Australia. The State Seniors Card is not
a product administered by Services Australia. It shouldn't be confused
with the Commonwealth Seniors Health Card (CSHC) which is administered
by the department. Only general information can be given by department
staff. Anyone wishing to apply for a card must contact their
State/Territory government.

Background

The State Seniors Card encourages seniors to be more active in the
community and enhance their lifestyle choices. Some of the benefits are
accessed through restaurants, travel agencies, clothing establishments,
and even from local businesses, for example hairdressers, barbers, plus
many more. Most businesses are encouraged to display the logo in their
window. Most states issue directories which list participating
businesses direct to card holders. Not all businesses advertise in this
directory.

Note: the concessions can also vary from state to state.

The look of the State Seniors Card has changed since its inception so
that it is easier to use interstate. Usage interstate is restricted to
businesses only, not State Government concessions. The map of Australia
symbol signifies a business that offers a discount to all Australian
card holders.

Refer to Seniors card - state and territory for relevant contact
details.

The Resources page contains contact details for the Seniors Cards for
each state and territory.

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
