
Aged care means assessment – manual means assessment 065-19041545

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

Legislation

Links to the Federal Register of Legislation site go to a 'Series' page.
Select the 'Latest' version.

Assessable income and assets

See the References page in Aged care means assessment for an overview of
legislation related to means assessments:

CSR to zero for care recipients assessed under pre 1 July 2014 assessment schemes

Residential care only

Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Act 1997

Chapter 3 - Subsidies > Part 3.1 - Residential care subsidy > Division
44 What is the amount of residential care subsidy? > Subdivision 44-E -
The income test > 44-22 Daily income tested reduction taken to be zero
in some circumstances > (1)(c)

Aged Care (Transitional Provisions) Principles 2014

Chapter 2 - Residential care subsidy > Part 3 What is the amount of
residential care subsidy? > Division 7 - The income test > Subdivision
A > 46 Classes of people for whom daily income tested reduction is taken
to be zero

CSR to zero for care recipients assessed under post 1 July 2014 means assessment schemes

Aged Care Act 1997

Home care

Chapter 3 - Subsidies > Part 3.2 - Home care subsidy > Division 48 -
What is the amount of home care subsidy? > 48-8 (1)(b) Care subsidy
reduction taken to be zero in some circumstances

Residential care

Chapter 3 - Subsidies > Part 3.1 - Residential care subsidy > Division
44 - What is the amount of residential care subsidy? > Subdivision
44-D - Reductions in subsidy > 44-23 Care subsidy reduction taken to be
zero in some circumstances

Subsidy Principles 2014

Home care

Chapter 3 - Home care subsidy > Part 2 - What is the amount of home care
subsidy > Division 3 - Reductions in subsidy > Subdivision B - Care
subsidy reduction - general > 88 Classes of people for whom care subsidy
reduction is taken to be zero

Residential care

Chapter 2 - Residential care subsidy >, Part 3 - What is the amount of
residential care subsidy? > Division 4 - Reductions in subsidy >
Subdivision B - Care subsidy reduction—general > 39 Classes of people
for whom care subsidy reduction is taken to be zero

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
