
Centrelink Bereavement Statement 099-02030010

-   Background
-   Process
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about the Centrelink Bereavement
Statement. A Bereavement Statement is issued to certain customers
following the death of their partner.

Issue of Bereavement Statement

A Bereavement Statement is issued if the surviving partner is receiving
a pension. The exception is if their pension is due to cease at the end
of the bereavement period. The deceased partner does not have to have
been receiving an allowance or payment. The Bereavement Statement is
issued:

-   8 weeks after the partner's date of death, or
-   on notification of death if the advice is received more than 8 weeks
    after the death

The Bereavement Statement provides a summary of the income and assets
held in the surviving partner's name as the date of issue. It also
provides a summary of the income and assets held in the late partner's
name as at their date of death. An Executor or administrator of the
deceased estate can use the statement to help with grant of probate and
finalisation of the estate.

The Bereavement Statement helps the surviving pensioner compare their
actual circumstances to the details Services Australia has recorded,
taking into account any recently acquired assets from their partner's
estate. It also allows the customer to notify the department of their
income and asset details to make sure they get the correct rate of
payment.

If the customer updates their income and asset details after receiving
the Bereavement Statement, they will not need to complete an income and
asset bereavement review.

The Resources page contains a link to contact details for the
Bereavement and an example of a Bereavement Statement.

Related links

Bereavement reviews

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
