
ParentsNext eligibility and servicing 101-18101001

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the eligibility requirements and servicing
processes for ParentsNext.

ParentsNext overview

ParentsNext is a pre-employment program for Parenting Payment (PP)
(single and partnered) customers with children under 6 years of age.
This may include grandparents or foster parents receiving PP. The
program focuses on offering individual support and referrals to services
that can help customers to plan and prepare for work or connect to the
workforce when their youngest child turns 6.

ParentsNext participants are not required to look for or take up work.
The aim is to encourage customers to think about their future work and
study related goals and to support them in achieving these goals by
connecting them with appropriate services in their local community. The
program offers individualised support that can include assistance to
access secure housing, financial advice, parenting courses, childcare,
transport, further study, training or volunteering.

Customers selected for ParentsNext must attend an initial appointment
with Services Australia and will be referred to a ParentsNext provider
if they are eligible. Customers selected for ParentsNext will be
automatically placed on 2 weekly (fortnightly) reporting from their date
of selection.

ParentsNext history

ParentsNext has operated since April 2016 with the first model limited
to 10 Local Government Areas (LGA).

From July 2018 ParentsNext operated nationally, in all non-remote areas
of Australia in two streams. The Intensive stream was delivered in 30
locations (67 LGAs) and the Targeted stream encompassed all other
non-remote Employment Regions nationally. There was different
eligibility criteria between the two streams resulting in customer's
being required to participate at different stages depending on their
circumstances and the age of their youngest PP child.

From July 2021, the ParentsNext program was enhanced so that eligibility
criteria is applied consistently across Australia removing the need for
the Targeted and Intensive streams. This ensures customers are selected
for ParentsNext and receive assistance based on their vulnerabilities
and not their location.

Eligibility and selection

Selection for ParentsNext is automatically determined by the system
based on the information contained on the customer's record at the time
of the eligibility assessment. A customer's reason for selection into
ParentsNext is displayed on the ParentsNext Summary page within Customer
First.

Base selection eligibility criteria

Customers meet the base selection eligibility criteria if they meet the
following:

-   They have been receiving Parenting Payment (PP) (Partnered or
    Single) for 6 months continuously
-   They are aged between 15 and under 54 years and 6 months of age, and
-   They have a youngest PP child aged 9 months to 5 years and 6 months

Note: The selection rules differ to the exit rules. A customer will only
be selected for ParentsNext if their youngest PP child is aged under 5
years 6 months old. Once a customer is selected for ParentsNext they are
required to participate until they turn 55 years of age and/or their
youngest PP child turns 6 years of age.

Additional selection criteria

Customer's must meet one of the following additional selection criteria
to be selected for the program and booked an appointment with the
agency:

-   Early School Leaver - they are under 22 and haven't completed Year
    12 or an equivalent qualification or higher
-   2 Years on ISP - they are 22 or over, haven't completed Year 12 or
    an equivalent qualification or higher and have been getting income
    support continuously for between 2 and 4 years
-   4 Years on ISP - they are 22 or over and have been getting income
    support continuously for more than 4 years

Note: The system calculates if the customer has been in receipt of
payment continuously for two or four years based on the Notional
continuous period of receipt of income support payments.

Ongoing eligibility for ParentsNext

Once a customer has been selected as a compulsory ParentsNext
participant they may remain eligible for the program even where a change
of circumstances means they no longer meet the initial selection
criteria. For example, if after selection they commence declaring income
or commence study, they will not necessarily be exited.

For further information, see ParentsNext exits and exemptions.

Exclusion criteria

A customer may meet the base selection eligibility criteria however they
won't be selected for ParentsNext if any of the following apply:

-   They live in a Community Development Program (CDP) region or Norfolk
    Island
-   They are in receipt of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)
-   They have reported employment income or hours in the last six months
-   They are taking part in Disability Employment Services (DES)

Customers may be selected for ParentsNext but they won't need to
participate if they:

-   Are currently studying and the study meets the minimum ParentsNext
    study requirements
-   Have completed Year 12 or an equivalent qualification or higher and
    have been getting income support for less than 4 years
-   Are on maternity/paternity leave
-   Are on leave and have a job to return to

Customers will need to provide evidence that these events commenced or
occurred before selection into ParentsNext, in order to be exited from
the program. For further information, see ParentsNext appointments and
Processing.

Child 5 years and 6 months

If a customer's youngest PP child is 5 years and 6 months or older at
the time of the initial ParentsNext system eligibility assessment, they
will not be selected for ParentsNext due to their impending mutual
obligation requirements.

Where a customer is selected for ParentsNext before their youngest child
turns 5 years and 6 months of age but their ParentsNext appointment with
the agency is after the child turns 5 years and 6 months they must still
be referred to a provider, if they meet the other selection criteria.

Impact of retrospective updates on eligibility

ParentsNext eligibility is based on information on the customer's record
at the time of the eligibility assessment. For example, the age of the
youngest PP child, whether the customer is currently studying, or
whether the customer has completed Year 12 or an equivalent
qualification. Incorrect or out of date information may affect this
assessment, resulting in the customer being selected as eligible, when
they otherwise would not be or they may have been selected for a
different reason.

In these cases, the customer's record must be updated with the correct
information to trigger a reassessment of eligibility. Depending on the
customer's circumstances they may be either automatically exited or
selected for a different reason.

For further information, see ParentsNext exits and exemptions.

Impact of employment income on eligibility and selection

Employment income

If a compulsory ParentsNext participant commences employment or first
declares income after their selection date for ParentsNext or first
advises of employment details at their Services Australia appointment,
Service Officers must still refer them to a ParentsNext provider where
they otherwise remain eligible. This is because the customer met the
compulsory participation criteria at the time of their selection, and
the agency does not have the delegation to exit a ParentsNext
participant due to earnings. The ParentsNext provider will discuss the
customer's circumstances and determine whether it is appropriate to exit
them due to 'stabilised and ongoing' earnings or whether it will be
included as an activity in their participation plan.

Self-employment

Where a ParentsNext participant is self-employed, the business must be
profitable for the income to be taken into account in the ParentsNext
eligibility assessment process. If the business is running at a loss, it
is not considered to be making income and the customer may be selected
for ParentsNext.

Impact of address on eligibility

Transient address

Eligibility assessments for ParentsNext are based on the address that is
recorded as the customer 's current home address at the time the
assessment occurs, including the suburb where the address is recorded as
'no fixed address' due to transient accommodation.

Where a ParentsNext participant advises they have no fixed address due
to transient accommodation they must be advised they are still required
to participate in the program. They will be referred to a ParentsNext
provider based on their current address at that time and it will be
their responsibility to contact their provider to discuss their
circumstances to determine how best their provider appointments can be
managed.

Note: this does not include where a customer advises they are homeless.
In this scenario the Service Officer must determine if it is appropriate
to grant an exemption. For further information, see ParentsNext exits
and exemptions.

Temporary address

Where a customer has a temporary address recorded, and the address is
recorded for:

-   13 weeks or more, the system will determine ParentsNext eligibility
    based on the temporary address and present ParentsNext providers
    within the online diary based on the temporary address
-   Less than 13 weeks, the system will determine ParentsNext
    eligibility based on the home address (not the temporary address)
    and will present providers within the online diary based on the home
    address

The Services Australia initial ParentsNext appointment must still be
conducted if a customer is residing in a temporary location and a
referral (where appropriate) to a ParentsNext provider for an initial
appointment made. The customer can contact the provider to discuss
whether the appointment can be conducted via phone. At the initial
provider appointment the customer can discuss circumstances and options
for receiving ParentsNext servicing whilst they reside in the temporary
location.

Impact of shared care arrangements on eligibility

Eligibility and selection assessments for ParentsNext are based only on
the children recorded in care of the Parenting Payment (PP) customer.
Where a family unit has separate care arrangements for different
children, that is, younger children are recorded as being in the care of
the PP customer's partner, those children will not be taken into account
for ParentsNext eligibility purposes. In this scenario, unless the
customer advises they wish to change care arrangements they are required
to participate in ParentsNext.

Compulsory participation requirements

Under Legislation, ParentsNext participants are subject to impending
mutual obligation requirements but they are referred to as participation
requirements.

Customers selected for ParentsNext must:

-   attend an initial appointment with the agency to confirm their
    eligibility and, where eligible, be referred to a ParentsNext
    provider

Compulsory ParentsNext participants must then:

-   attend all scheduled appointments with their ParentsNext provider
    and behave in an appropriate manner at these appointments
-   sign a ParentsNext Participation Plan containing at least 1
    compulsory activity tailored to the individual to address any
    vocational and non-vocational barriers
-   participate in and report to their provider on the compulsory
    ParentsNext activity/activities as detailed in their Participation
    Plan, and
-   report to the agency every 2 weeks, unless they are on 12 weekly
    reporting due to a long term exemption

Customers who do not attend their ParentsNext appointment with the
agency may have their Parenting Payment (PP) suspended. If a customer
does not agree to attend an appointment within 13 weeks of payment
suspension, their payment will be automatically cancelled. The customer
must lodge a new claim if they still require income support assistance.
See ParentsNext suspension and restoration.

A compulsory ParentsNext participant who does not attend an appointment
with their ParentsNext provider or comply with their participation
requirements may be subject to compliance action under the Targeted
Compliance Framework.

Note: any enquiries relating to the Targeted Compliance Framework for
ParentsNext participants must be directed to the Level 2 Compliance and
Participation Helpdesk. The Resources page contains a link to the Level
2 Compliance and Participation Helpdesk.

Reporting

Two weekly (fortnightly) reporting

Customers selected for ParentsNext will be automatically placed on
mandatory two weekly (fortnightly) reporting from their date of
selection.

Where ParentsNext participants are profiled as two weekly reporters they
must report fortnightly regardless of nil income, stabilised income or a
current exemption.

Where a customer's Parenting Payment (PP) is cancelled for failing to
report (FRP) they will exit from ParentsNext as they no longer meet the
base eligibility criteria. If their PP is subsequently restored, they
will be reassessed for ParentsNext at that time and if eligible, they
will be reselected.

Twelve weekly reporting

Where a ParentsNext participant is granted a long term exemption, they
will be automatically assessed for eligibility for variable, 12 weekly
reporting. If the customer or their partner (where partnered) are
declaring income when the long term exemption is granted or commence
declaring income during the exemption period or have a current debt,
they will remain on or reverted to two weekly (fortnightly) reporting.

For further information, see ParentsNext exits and exemptions.

Appointments

ParentsNext appointments with Services Australia

Parenting Payment (PP) customers who are selected for ParentsNext are
required to undertake an appointment with the agency. Where the customer
has a phone contact number recorded, the appointment will be undertaken
by phone. If there is no contact phone number on the customer's record,
the appointment is undertaken at the customer's local service centre.

For further information, see ParentsNext appointments and processing.

Rescheduling ParentsNext appointments with Services Australia

[] Customers are able, and should be advised where appropriate, to
reschedule any appointment type via their online account. Customers are
able to reschedule via their online account if they are requesting a new
appointment within 2 days of their original appointment. If the customer
is unable to attend another appointment within 2 days, they will need to
contact the agency to have their appointment rescheduled.

Service Officers are only able to reschedule ParentsNext appointments up
to a maximum of two times, this is inclusive of where a customer has
already rescheduled their appointment online. Once a customer has
already rescheduled on two previous occasions, they must be advised they
are required to attend their next appointment or their PP will be
suspended.

Care must be taken when rescheduling ParentsNext appointments to avoid
customers from continually rescheduling without eventually being seen by
Services Australia. See ParentsNext suspension and restoration.

Note: appointments can only be rescheduled up to the scheduled date and
time of the original appointment. After that point, the original
appointment must be recorded as 'did not attend' and a new appointment
booked.

See the Resources page in View, reschedule or cancel an appointment in
the Centrelink Appointment System for an attachment containing a
complete listing of appointments and parameters for rescheduling.

ParentsNext exemptions

ParentsNext exemptions recorded by either the agency or a ParentsNext
provider will exempt the customer from the requirement to participate in
ParentsNext (for the duration of the exemption).

The granting of an exemption does not change a ParentsNext participant's
eligibility status or their reason for selection.

For further information, see ParentsNext exits, exemptions and deferred
referrals.

ParentsNext providers

Compulsory ParentsNext participants are required to attend an
appointment with their ParentsNext provider where they will agree to and
sign a participation plan.

ParentsNext provider appointments must be booked within 1 to 5 business
days after the customer's next Entitlement Period End Date (EPED). If an
interpreter is required the appointment must be booked no earlier than 7
business days in the future.

For further information, see ParentsNext appointments and processing.

Voluntary participants

Eligible customers can choose to participate voluntarily in ParentsNext
if they:

-   do not meet the criteria for compulsory participation
-   do not live in a CDP region or Norfolk Island
-   are in receipt of Parenting Payment, and
-   have a child aged under 6 years (there is no minimum child age for
    voluntary participation)

Where a customer is eligible for voluntary participation, the Volunteer
guided procedure will be enabled on the ParentsNext Summary page. If the
Volunteer guided procedure is not enabled, the customer is not eligible
to voluntarily participate.

As a customer can choose to voluntarily participate before their
youngest child is 9 months of age, there may be instances where the
Customer Summary page displays the message 'Never been a ParentsNext
participant' and the ParentsNext Summary page will be blank. As the
customer has not yet been automatically assessed for ParentsNext this
display is correct.

ParentsNext providers can direct register customers as a voluntary
participant. Once commenced, voluntary participants can continue in
ParentsNext for an unlimited period of time whilst they remain eligible.

A voluntary participant re-assessed as a compulsory participant will be
notified that they are required to attend a ParentsNext appointment with
Services Australia to discuss compulsory participation.

Compliance action cannot be undertaken for voluntary participants. If
they are not satisfactorily engaging with their ParentsNext provider,
they may be exited from the program by the provider.

Where a voluntary participant advises they no longer wish to
participate, they can only be exited by the agency/department that
registered them as voluntary i.e. if registered by Services Australia,
only Services Australia may apply the exit or if they were direct
registered by the provider, only the provider can apply the exit.

Participation in the previous model of ParentsNext

Where the customer was a compulsory ParentsNext participant in the
previous model of ParentsNext as at 30 June 2021 but they no longer meet
the compulsory participation requirements, they can elect to register as
a voluntary participant and they will be reconnected to their previous
provider. They may also have received a notification to contact after 1
July 2021 to register as a voluntary participant.

From 1 July 2021 onwards, if any customer elects to volunteer in
ParentsNext and they were a compulsory ParentsNext participant within
the previous 6 months they will also be reconnected to their previous
provider when the Volunteer Guided Procedure is run.

ParentsNext notifications

Appointment notification

All customers who are selected for ParentsNext will be notified of the
requirement to attend an appointment with Services Australia. The letter
includes a Department of Education, Skills and Employment brochure that
explains the ParentsNext program to the customer and how it may benefit
them. Where a customer has subscribed to receive Centrelink letters
online, they will receive a link to the brochure in their online
account.

See Resources for a link to the brochure.

Long term exemption has ended or is due to end

ParentsNext participants that have been granted a long term exemption
will be sent a notification to inform them if their exemption has ended
(where the exemption is ended early) or is due to end. The letter will
advise that they now need to meet their participation requirements and
if they are a variable reporter they will also now need to report every
2 weeks.

ParentsNext exits

When a customer is no longer eligible for ParentsNext, the system will
automatically exit them from the program and update their status on the
ParentsNext Summary page.

Note: although there is a Manual exit Guided Procedure on the
ParentsNext Summary page Service Officers do not have the required level
of access to use this workflow, as they do not have the delegation to
manually exit ParentsNext participants from this compulsory program.

For further information, see ParentsNext exits and exemptions.

The Resources page contains information on ParentsNext appointments, a
link to the Department of Education, Skills and Employment ParentsNext
brochure, external website for the Department of Education, Skills and
Employment, contact details referenced in this document and links to the
Level 2 Compliance and Participation Helpdesks.

Related links

ParentsNext appointments and processing

ParentsNext suspension and restoration

ParentsNext exits and exemptions

Using Centrelink self service

Eligibility for Employment Services as a volunteer

Booking appointments in the Centrelink Appointment System

Upload documents service

How to code and action a manual review

Foster care and principal carers

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
