
Centrelink Confirmation eServices 101-09010000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how the Centrelink Confirmation eServices (CCeS)
is an electronic (online) system designed to provide an approved
business with verification and confirmation of a customer's details and
concession entitlement. The amount of information that can be provided
to an approved concession provider is negotiated with Services
Australia.

On this Page:

Enquiries about CCeS

CCeS is available to businesses who provide a concession, rebate or
service to their customers. Businesses wishing to obtain information
about Centrelink Confirmation eServices (CCeS) can visit the CCeS
section of the Services Australia website.

Businesses seeking further information or who wish to discuss how CCeS
may benefit them, can have their contact details referred to the Third
Party Organisation Account Management Team in the relevant state or
territory for follow up.

Businesses approved for CCeS should contact the National Business
Gateway - Confirmation Services Helpdesk for support.

The Resources page contains a link to CCeS information on the Services
Australia website, and Guidelines relating to protection of customer
information.

Registering for CCeS

For businesses who wish to register for CCeS, the authorised person from
the business will need to complete the CCeS Business Application. The
form can be downloaded from the Services Australia website.

The business should read the CCeS Terms, CCeS Policy and the CCeS
Procedural Guide before completing the Business Application. See the
Resources page for a link to these documents which are available via the
Centrelink Confirmation eServices (CCeS) for businesses page on the
Services Australia website.

Once completed, the Business Application should be faxed to the agency.
The CCeS intranet site contains contact details, including fax number.

Once registration is approved for the business, a contract will be
negotiated and CCeS access may be granted to the business. CCeS is
accessed by the business through the internet.

Privacy and security

In accordance with the Privacy Act 1988, it is mandatory for a business
to obtain consent from the customer before the business can verify and
confirm a customer’s details and concession entitlement with the agency.

Businesses must also ensure that the customer’s information they obtain
through CCeS is protected and secure at all times.

Privacy and Security information is available via the Centrelink
Confirmation eServices (CCeS) for businesses page on the Services
Australia website. See the Resources page for a link to this
information.

Confirmation eServices available

Businesses can confirm a Services Australia or Department of Veterans’
Affairs (DVA) customer’s entitlement to:

1.  receive a concession, rebate or service (Customer Confirmation)
2.  to request an agency customer's income, to request asset and payment
    details (Income Confirmation)
3.  to assist in determining the early release of superannuation in the
    event of financial hardship (Superannuation Confirmation)

Businesses can choose to use a single enquiry, or a batch enquiry on
multiple customers at a time. There is also an option that allows system
to system access with the businesses' interface (setup and testing fees
apply).

Customer confirmation

Confirms a customer's Centrelink entitlement to concessions and
services. It helps businesses confirm if a customer is entitled to their
concession, service or rebate without requiring the customer to collect
and provide evidence from the agency:

1.  Centrelink payment enquiry - used to confirm a customer's
    entitlement to receive a concession
2.  Department of Veterans' Affairs enquiry - used to check a DVA
    client's concession eligibility

This service confirms a customer's details such as their name, address,
payment type and concession card status.

A 'yes' or 'no' answer is used to verify details.

Income confirmation

This service provides a business with a customer's income, asset and
payment details, similar to the Income Statement or Details Income and
Assets Statement that a customer can request.

Superannuation confirmation

Administrators and trustees of super funds can use this service to
assist in determining a customer's eligibility for the Early Release of
Superannuation on financial hardship grounds. The service will provide a
'yes' or 'no; response if the customer meets one of the income support
requirements:

1.  customer is below preservation age plus 39 weeks, and had a
    continuous payment period of 26 weeks immediately before the
    application, or
2.  customer meets preservation age plus 39 weeks or more, and has a
    cumulative payment period total of 39 weeks after reaching their
    preservation age

Approved businesses

Approved businesses include councils, transport authorities, water
authorities, education authorities, banks, financial planners, legal aid
services, health services, welfare agencies, energy authorities,
telecommunications authorities, and utilities (water and energy service
providers combined).

Concessions offered by approved businesses include reductions in rates,
transport costs (for public bus, rail and ferry services), car
registrations and the supply of electricity, gas and water. It is
necessary the business has the customer's consent before enquiries can
be made about that customer's details or concession entitlement.

For a business to have access to the CCeS, a 'Business Online Services -
User details' (SA445) form must first be signed and a hard copy
submitted to the agency for approval. The Resources page contains a link
to this form, available via the Centrelink Confirmation eServices (CCeS)
for businesses page on the Services Australia website.

Guidelines have been developed for businesses to help meet their
obligations to securely store confidential documents. See the Resources
page for a copy of the guidelines.

Customer consent

In accordance with the Privacy Act 1988, it is mandatory for a business
to obtain consent from the customer prior to enquiring into a customer
details and concession entitlement.

Contents

Customer consent for Centrelink Confirmation eServices (CCeS)

Income Statements and detailed income and asset statements

Related links

Withdrawing a business's approval to use a deduction and confirmation
service

Adding, changing or removing a service reason for Income Management or
CCeS businesses

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
