
ParentsNext suspension and restoration 101-03160010

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the processes for dealing with failure to attend
a Services Australia ParentsNext appointment and non-compliance with
ParentsNext participation requirements.

ParentsNext participation requirements

Under legislation, ParentsNext participants are subject to mutual
obligation requirements, but they are generally referred to as
participation requirements.

ParentsNext participants are subject to compulsory participation
requirements and are required to:

-   attend an initial ParentsNext appointment with Services Australia
-   attend and behave in an appropriate manner at all scheduled
    appointments with their ParentsNext provider
-   contact the ParentsNext provider before the scheduled start of an
    appointment or activity if unable to attend
-   negotiate and sign a Participation Plan with their ParentsNext
    provider, and
-   participate in the compulsory ParentsNext activity contained in
    their Participation Plan

Failure to attend a ParentsNext appointment with Services Australia

Customers who have been assessed by the system and selected as a
compulsory participant for the ParentsNext program will be automatically
booked an appointment with Services Australia. If the customer has a
contact number on their record, it will be a phone appointment. If there
are no contact details recorded, it will be a face-to-face appointment
at the customer's local service centre.

If a customer fails to attend a ParentsNext appointment with Services
Australia without a reasonable excuse or cannot be contacted for a phone
appointment, their Parenting Payment (PP) may be suspended. See the
References page for a link to the Guide to Social Security Law 3.11.15:
Reasonable Excuse.

For information on eligibility, see ParentsNext eligibility and
servicing. For appointments, see ParentsNext appointments and
processing.

Failure to meet ParentsNext provider requirements - Targeted Compliance Framework

Compulsory ParentsNext participants are subject to the Targeted
Compliance Framework if they fail to meet the following Provider
participation requirements:

-   Attend and behave in an appropriate manner at all scheduled
    appointments with their ParentsNext provider
-   Contact the ParentsNext provider before the scheduled start of an
    appointment or activity if unable to attend
-   Negotiate and sign a Participation Plan with their ParentsNext
    provider, and
-   Participate in the compulsory ParentsNext activity contained in
    their Participation Plan

For more information see, Targeted Compliance Framework

Enquiries in relation to how the Targeted Compliance Framework impacts
on compulsory ParentsNext participants must be directed to the Level 2
Compliance and Participation Helpdesk. The Resources page contains a
link to the helpdesk.

Reporting

As the Targeted Compliance Framework is reliant on customers reporting
fortnightly, customers selected as a compulsory ParentsNext participant
will initially be automatically placed on 2 weekly (fortnightly)
reporting.

Where a ParentsNext participant is granted a 'long term' exemption, they
will be automatically assessed for eligibility for variable, 12 weekly
reporting. If the customer or their partner (where partnered) are
declaring income when the long term exemption is granted or commence
declaring income during the exemption period they will remain on/be
reverted to 2 weekly (fortnightly) reporting.

For more information, see ParentsNext exits and exemptions.

Desktop Messaging

To improve attendance at Services Australia ParentsNext phone
appointments, Desktop Messaging is available to issue a pre-call SMS
notification to customers subscribed for Electronic Messaging. The
message will remind them of their ParentsNext phone appointment, that
the call will come from a blocked number, and the need to answer this
call.

Restoration

When PP has been suspended for failing to attend a ParentsNext
appointment with Services Australia (SUS-FDH), the customer:

-   can have a new appointment booked and,
-   their payment restored at first point of contact for 2 or less
    missed appointments only

If a customer has missed 3 or more previous appointments with Services
Australia within this ParentsNext eligibility cycle (that is, since the
last time the customer became eligible), payment is not to be restored
until the appointment has been conducted. A new appointment should be
booked for the customer as soon as possible. Payment will only be
restored once the customer has attended this subsequent appointment.
This is to ensure the customer does not continually miss appointments to
avoid starting in the program and being referred to a ParentsNext
provider.

Note: as ParentsNext eligibility requirements changed on 1 July 2021,
the number of missed appointments should only be counted from this date.
See ParentsNext eligibility cycle for more information.

If the customer satisfactorily complies with their requirements within
13 weeks of their suspension date, their payment can be restored and
arrears paid back to the suspension date. If the customer does not
contact or re-engage within 13 weeks from the date of suspension, their
Parenting Payment (PP) will automatically cancel from the original
suspension date and the customer will need to lodge a new claim if they
wish to continue to receive payment.

ParentsNext exemptions

ParentsNext exemptions recorded by either the agency or the ParentsNext
provider will exempt the customer from the requirement to participate in
ParentsNext, for the duration of the exemption.

The granting of an exemption does not change a customer's ParentsNext
eligibility status or their reason for selection.

For more information, see ParentsNext exits and exemptions.

The Resources page contains information on ParentsNext appointments and
links to the Level 2 Compliance and Participation Helpdesk and
Department of Education, Skills and Employment website.

Related Links

ParentsNext appointments and processing

ParentsNext eligibility and servicing

ParentsNext exits and exemptions

Roles and responsibilities for managing compliance with compulsory
requirements

Complete and finalise appointment in the Centrelink Appointment System

Creating documents (Fast Note, Callbacks and ACTDOCs)

Booking appointments in the Centrelink Appointment System

Centrelink letters online and Electronic Messaging

Targeted Compliance Framework

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
