
[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to assess self-employment for customers in
receipt of Disability Support Pension (DSP) and JobSeeker Payment (JSP).
It also provides links to other procedures that will assist in assessing
self-employment of customers in receipt of other social welfare payments
delivered by Centrelink.

Government intent

Self-employment needs to be assessed appropriately to ensure that
customers are able to access the most suitable form of assistance from
Centrelink.

Self-employment and business structure

When a customer advises they have commenced or returned to
self-employment, it must be first established that they are
self-employed or an employee. There are many factors to determine
self-employment.

If it has been determined that the customer is self-employed, the next
step is to identify what business structure they are operating under, as
there are several options, these include:

-   sole trader
-   partnership
-   company
-   trust
-   contracts and commission sales

Once it has been established what type of business structure the
customer has, they will be required to provide information on their
business.

Every customer's address (including postal address) and telephone
details (including mobile phone numbers) must be checked at every
contact, and updated if required. Note: if the customer has
authenticated themselves via IVR, address details do not need to be
confirmed.

Contents

Commencing or returning to self-employment Disability Support Pension
(DSP)

Commencing or returning to self-employment for JobSeeker Payment, Youth
Allowance and Austudy

Related links

Self-employed or employee

Self-employment as an approved activity

Cessation of employment income

Commencing or returning to work

Business has ceased or has been sold

Factors to determine self-employment

Commencement of a new business or purchase of a business enterprise

Assessment of income and assets from business structures for Centrelink
payments

Changes to income and assets from a business structure

Sole traders

Partnerships

Assessment of trusts and companies

Assessment of income from trusts and companies

Assessment of income and assets from trusts and companies pre 1 January
2002

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
