-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the effect on Pensioner Education Supplement
(PES), ABSTUDY PES or Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) PES if a
customer or AIC PES applicant has a change in, or ceases to receive
their PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES qualifying payment.

PES entitlement when qualifying payment ceases

If the customer's qualifying income support payment ceases, the customer
or AIC PES applicant no longer qualifies for PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES
from the date of cancellation, unless they have transferred to another
qualifying income support payment that attracts PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC
PES.

Study load requirements

For the purposes of PES, ABSTUDY PES and AIC PES, a student is usually
required to be undertaking a full-time study load. However, there is a
study load concession for students receiving certain qualifying payments
which would allow them to be paid PES or ABSTUDY PES while undertaking
as little as 25% of a full-time study load. A student who changes from a
qualifying payment that attracts this concession to one that does not
would need to be assessed under the normal full-time study rules.

The usual General Date of Effect and Notification Rules, as outlined in
the Social Security Guide, apply to PES.

Note: an exception to the full-time study requirement is available in
some circumstances for an ABSTUDY PES customer who ceases to be in
receipt of a PES qualifying payment and transfers to ABSTUDY Living
Allowance.

Related links

ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) qualifications

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Pensioner Education
Supplement (PES) qualifications

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) qualifications

Cancellation of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and ABSTUDY PES

Qualifying payments for Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

People with a partial capacity to work

Assessing the pensioner study load concession for ABSTUDY Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

Assessing eligibility for 25% concessional study load for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

Assessing eligibility for 66% concessional study load for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
