
Cancellation of JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker) at customer's request 102-10020190

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how a customer can voluntarily request Services
Australia cancel their JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Youth Allowance (YA)
(job seeker) payments.

Commencing work - checks before cancellation

If a job seeker has started work (regardless if this work is casual,
permanent, full time or part time), make sure the customer has lost
entitlement to the payment:

-   working credits may enable the customer to keep some of their income
    support payment while they are working
-   the job seeker can continue to lodge a Reporting Statement via []
    self-managed service channels (Online account, Express Plus
    application or phone), in person or in writing (SU19) to take
    advantage of the employment income nil rate period

When the job seeker makes the request to cancel in person or by phone,
without reporting, the Service Officer should advise the job seeker that
it is in their interest to lodge a final Reporting Statement via []
self-managed service channels (Online account, Express Plus application
or phone), in person or in writing (SU19). If they do not lodge:

-   the job seeker will not be paid any entitlement they may have
    accrued, or
-   job seekers on variable reporting may incur a debt if they have
    received payment since their previous report

If the customer advises they have become a full-time Australian
Apprentice investigate entitlement to ABSTUDY, Austudy or YA.

Note: changes to a dependent YA customer's circumstances may affect the
family pool if those siblings receive dependent ABSTUDY, Assistance for
Isolated Children (AIC) or YA.

Customer requests voluntary surrender of JSP or YA (job seeker) to claim Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment (PLDP)

Customers can voluntarily surrender their Income Support Payment (ISP)
to claim PLDP. Make sure the customer understands they will not be
entitled to add on payments such as, Rent Assistance or Energy
Supplement, while receiving PLDP. A customer cannot be paid PLDP and an
income support payment for the same period.

Note: customers who receive Family Tax Benefit (FTB) who surrender their
income support payment must provide an estimate to ensure ongoing
entitlement to FTB.

To be eligible for Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment:

-   customers need to prove they are unable to attend work, and are
    therefore unable to earn an income
-   they were likely to have worked during the period of self-isolation,
    quarantine or caring
-   they have insufficient appropriate leave entitlements, including any
    pandemic sick leave, or will use up this leave during the 7 day
    period

For more details, see Pandemic Leave Disaster Payment.

Cancel my current payment online service

Eligible customers may use the Cancel my current payment service in
their [] Centrelink online account to cancel their own income support
payment voluntarily when they no longer wish to continue receiving an
income support payment. See Cancel my current payment online.

Outstanding compliance action when payment is cancelled

When a participation payment is cancelled or suspended, background
processing automatically:

-   finalises any outstanding compliance action that is no longer
    required
-   holds compliance action that will need to be considered if payment
    restarts within 3 months

For more information, see Rejecting a compliance action.

Related links

Commencing or returning to work for JobSeeker Payment (JSP) and Youth
Allowance (job seeker)

Commencing or returning to self-employment for JobSeeker Payment (JSP),
Youth Allowance and Austudy

Cancellation of Austudy or Youth Allowance (YA) students and Australian
Apprentices

Coding a cancellation

Cancellation of payments (CLK)

Cancellation, Suspension, Rejection and Restoration (CLK)

Reporting Requirements for job seekers

Determining a dependent child for inclusion in the family pool for the
Parental Income Test (PIT) for Youth Allowance (YA)

Working Credit

Employment income nil rate period

Helping families provide a reasonable annual income estimate for family
assistance payments

Updating income estimates for the current financial year

Rejecting a compliance action

Calculating the effect of Job Seeker Compliance Model failure penalties
on fortnightly instalments

Change in relationship status from single to partnered

Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy (YBWS) 26 Week Suspension Period

Nominees

Identifying customer vulnerability and risk issues

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
