
Existing customer starts an Australian Apprenticeship 102-07030200

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process to follow when an existing customer
starts an Australian Apprenticeship.

Current YA, Austudy or ABSTUDY customer

If the customer is currently receiving Youth Allowance (YA), Austudy or
ABSTUDY and will continue to be eligible to receive the same payment as
an Australian Apprentice, no claim is needed if they notify Services
Australia within 14 days of the apprenticeship start date.

The following customers will continue to qualify for payment if they
change their activity from job search, student or other activities to
full-time Australian Apprentice:

-   YA job seekers under 22
-   YA students under 25
-   Austudy students
-   ABSTUDY students

Claim requirements

There is no requirement for current YA, Austudy or ABSTUDY customers to
lodge a claim to make sure the continuation of their income support
payment. When a customer indicates they will be undertaking a full-time
Australian Apprenticeship, Services Australia will obtain the Australian
Apprenticeship details from the Department of Employment and Workplace
Relations (DEWR).

If there is a gap between ceasing study and commencing the Australian
Apprenticeship, and the YA, Austudy or ABSTUDY customer needs to access
income support, they must change activity or claim another payment
depending on their circumstances (for example, Youth Allowance (YA) (job
seeker), JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Parenting Payment (PP).

However, existing ABSTUDY customers do not need to apply for income
support if the gap is 28 days or less, as they remain entitled during
this period.

If a customer is receiving another income support payment, they will be
required to lodge a claim for Youth Allowance, Austudy or ABSTUDY as an
Australian Apprentice.

Indigenous customers

It may be more beneficial for Indigenous Australian Apprentices to claim
ABSTUDY rather than remain on YA or JobSeeker Payment (JSP), as ABSTUDY
Australian Apprentices may be eligible for other supplementary ABSTUDY
payments in addition to their Living Allowance such as Incidentals
Allowance.

Effect on payment

When a customer advises they will start (or have started) an Australian
Apprenticeship, payments are normally suspended from the date full-time
employment starts. The change of activity type or benefit transfer
cannot be finalised until the details of the Australian Apprenticeship
are confirmed by the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations
(DEWR).

Part-time Australian Apprentices

Australian Apprentices must be undertaking their Australian
Apprenticeship full-time to qualify for payments as an apprentice.

A customer undertaking a part-time apprenticeship may still be eligible
for assistance as a student if they are studying an approved course and
undertaking an approved study load for the relevant payment.

Australian Apprentice Income Bank

ABSTUDY, Austudy and YA full-time Australian Apprentices have access to
the Australian Apprentice Income Bank, which enables them to build up
credits when their income does not exceed the income free area.

The Australian Apprentice Income Bank only allows a customer to accrue
up to a maximum of 1000 Working Credits, whereas a YA job seeker can
accrue up to 3500 Working Credits.

If the customer has unused Working Credits, these credits can be
transferred to their Income Bank where there is a gap in entitlement of
up to 12 months.

Unused Student Income Bank

If the customer has unused Student Income Bank credits, those unused
credits can only be transferred to their Australian Apprentice Income
Bank where there is no gap in entitlement. A customer has access to the
Income Bank for any fortnight where the customer is an Australian
Apprentice (even if for only 1 day in the fortnight).

Activity test requirements

There is no activity test for Australian Apprentices, as they continue
to be eligible as long as they have a current Commonwealth Registration
Number.

Effect on other Income Support payments

When a customer starts a full time Australian Apprenticeship, some
income support payments may no longer be payable. See Commencing or
returning to work.

The Resources page contains links to the students and trainees
information on the Services Australia website and example text for the
Q134 suspension/cancellation letter.

Related links

Claiming ABSTUDY

Personal Income test and Income Bank for ABSTUDY, Austudy and Youth
Allowance (YA) students and Australian Apprentices

Working Credit

Identifying the most beneficial payment for trainees or Australian
Apprentices

Suspension of payments (CLK)

Creating a Q134 letter

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
