
Change in relationship status from single to partnered 102-05010000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

Risks to a customer's privacy have been identified. See Separating
Safely - protecting personal details to make sure the customer's
personal details are safe before progressing.

This document outlines what to do when a Centrelink customer advises
they have become partnered. Reassess entitlement to payments and
services (for both parties if they both receive payments or services).

Customer advises a change of relationship status

When a single customer receiving Centrelink payments and services
becomes partnered, they must advise Services Australia of the change in
relationship status. Entitlement to payments or services is reassessed
(for both the customer and their partner if their partner also receives
payments or services).

The customer and/or their partner may no longer qualify for income
support payments and may have to claim another payment. If they remain
eligible, they may have a change in their rate of payment.

At every contact, staff must check/update the customer's address
(including postal address) and phone details (including mobile phone
numbers).

Failure to advise becoming partnered may result in an overpayment. Debt
shell activities that generate due to linking a customer to their
partner should be left for the Debt Management Team to investigate. See
Debt identification.

When a MOD P is needed

When a customer receiving Centrelink payments or services becomes
partnered (or has a change in partner), they must advise the change in
relationship status.

Partner details are generally provided via:

-   a completed Partner Details (MOD P) form for current customers
-   the online claim or Assisted Customer Claim (ACC) workflow for
    customers making a new claim

Sometimes partner details may be assessed without a MOD P.

A MOD P is not needed when:

The customer is only getting Carer Allowance (CA) and they are exempt
from providing income details for the CA income test

The customer receives Parenting Payment (PP) at the single rate and they
are claiming PP as a partnered customer. Partner details will be
collected as part of the new claim. See Transfer from Parenting Payment
Single (PPS) to Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP)

The customer is only getting Parental Leave Pay or Dad and Partner Pay
and the new partner is not receiving or claiming an income support
payment

All the required information is available by any of the following:

-   the partner being present (in person or over the phone)
-   a completed paper claim form that contains full partner details and
    is signed by both the customer and their partner. Note: if a partner
    refuses to provide their details in the customer’s claim form (some
    couples keep their financial affairs separate and private from each
    other), a MOD P will be needed before assessing the claim
-   an online claim, if it contains partner details and their partner
    has completed their task through the 'Partner Confirmation Logon'
    portal on the Services Australia website, using a TAC. See
    Confirming a partnered relationship
-   a combined partner online claim, e.g. Age Pension or Farm Household
    Allowance

The Newborn Child Declaration (FA081) form is not to be used for linking
customers. A MOD P must be issued. The FA081 form is only a declaration
of a newborn child. It does not request all the information needed for
an accurate assessment of the customer's relationship status.

International customer becomes partnered - forms required

When a customer is claiming or receiving an Australian income support
payment while living overseas, they must also advise the agency of a
change in their relationship status:

-   The customer and partner may have to complete a Partner details
    (AUS174) form, or
-   The partner can confirm via the 'Partner Confirmation Logon' portal
    on the Services Australia website, with the temporary access code
    (TAC) given to the customers at the end of the claim

Note: the AUS174 is available in some other languages. Refer to online
forms.

Link customer records

When all required information is available (by the customer and partner
being present face-to-face or on the phone) for records to be linked,
record on a DOC the information provided by the customer and their
partner.

Note: confirmation of the relationship by both the customer and partner
is required to update and link customer and partner records. If there is
documented family and domestic violence on the customer or partner's
record, see Family and domestic violence.

If a customer or the partner does not have a Confirmed Identity
Confirmation Indicator (ICI), they may need to provide documents which
establish commencement of identity (COI), and use of identity in the
community - Primary Use in the Community (PUiC) and Secondary Use in the
Community (SUiC). The link between the identity and the person will then
be established via a photographic identity document. For more
information, including payments and services it applies to, see Identity
Confirmation.

Payment under Section 24

If it appears a customer may be placed in financial difficulty by being
assessed as partnered and special circumstances exist, payment under
Section 24 provisions may be considered.

Customers must be advised that a change of circumstances may result in
their circumstances being reassessed. This may result in their rate
changing to the partnered rate if they are no longer eligible under
Section 24 provisions.

Child Support and Medicare payments and services

Customers should be advised that information used for their Centrelink,
Child Support and Medicare payments and services is not routinely
transferred within Services Australia.

To update relevant information, the customer may have to contact
Centrelink, Child Support or Medicare separately.

Principal carers

Only one member of a couple can be assessed as a principal carer of a
dependent child at any time for income support purposes.

If 2 single parents become partnered, a decision must be made about who
is the principal carer. Principal carer status must be updated for one
customer before linking their records are linked.

If one member of a couple receives Parenting Payment (PP), they are
considered the principal carer. If both currently receive PP, one member
of the couple must transfer to another payment, for example JobSeeker
Payment (JSP).

Family assistance customers

Customers receiving Family Tax Benefit (FTB) or Child Care Subsidy (CCS)
must:

-   provide or revise their family income estimate and Activity Test
    details for CCS
-   details of their and their partner's Tax File Number (TFN)

Check if there is a shared care arrangement for any of the children in
the household.

If reconciling with a parent of an FTB child, child support/maintenance
action and income details must be checked, and they must decide who will
claim FTB for the children.

Members of a blended family may choose each to receive FTB.

For more information, see Family assistance customer becomes partnered
and Customer advises care arrangements for FTB.

YA, ABSTUDY and DSP

Customers claiming or receiving Youth Allowance or ABSTUDY need to
advise their relationship status as it affects whether they are:

-   considered independent (if other independent criteria are not met),
    or
-   assessed under the Parental Income Test if under 22 years of age

If either the customer or their partner is a dependent YA or ABSTUDY
customer:

-   there is no need to collect partner details
-   their records must not be linked until they both meet the YA/ABSTUDY
    independence criteria

See YA or ABSTUDY customer becomes partnered.

Customers under 21 years of age who are claiming or receiving Disability
Support Pension also need to advise their relationship status. It can
affect whether they are paid at the independent or dependent rate.

DSP customers are not subject to the Parental Income Test. If the
customer becomes partnered, the records must be linked.

See Assessing payment rates and independence for DSP customers under 21.

The Resources page contains links to forms, family assistance contact
details, the Payment and Services Finder and letter template.

Contents

Change in relationship status to single for a customer residing outside
Australia

Family assistance customer becomes partnered

Youth Allowance (YA) or ABSTUDY customer becomes partnered

Related links

ABSTUDY customer in de facto relationship

Assessing the Partner details (MOD P)

Assessing independence when a customer is/was married or a member of a
couple

Changes in a customer's circumstances and effect on concession card
entitlement

Assessment of dependent children, additional income free area and child
income under social security law

Changing address (CLK)

Changing the Legal name of customers or their children

Claiming Parenting Payment (PP)

Member of a Couple (MoC) and Separated under one roof (SUOR) assessments

Transfer from Parenting Payment Single (PPS) to Parenting Payment
Partnered (PPP)

Treatment of a partnered person as single under Section 24 new
determinations

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
