
Cancellation of Parenting Payment (PP) 102-10020210

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document explains the cancellation of Parenting Payment (PP).

Checks before cancellation

Before cancelling a customer's payment, take care to make sure the
customer has lost entitlement for the payment:

-   Working Credits may enable the customer to keep some of their PP
    while they are working. Note: if they are over Age Pension age,
    there is no entitlement to Working Credit. PP customers, regardless
    of age, do not have eligibility to the Work Bonus
-   If the customer's income reduces their fortnightly rate to nil and
    some of that income is from employment, they may remain current at
    nil rate for up to 6 fortnights and retain certain benefits

Cancellation reason

Cancellation can be due to a change in the customer's circumstances or
because they have not complied with the requirements for the payment.

If the customer is not qualified for payment and the decision is made to
cancel their payment, an advice must be sent to the customer with the
cancellation reason and rights of review and appeal. An automatic letter
is also sent requesting an annual income estimate for Family Tax
Benefit/Child Care Subsidy.

A customer can also ask to cancel their payment. In these cases, the
customer must be advised of their options and that their payment cannot
be restored. If they need financial help in the future, they must submit
a new claim.

In some cases, a customer may request cancellation of PPP as it is more
beneficial for their partner to claim.

Automatic cancellation

Some automatic PP cancellations are completed up to 4 weeks before the
actual cancellation date. In these situations, PP will remain current
until the cancellation date, but PP will have a status of CAN
(cancelled) or CNP (cancel next pay).

The customer will then receive a cancellation letter. This may prompt
them to contact about claiming another income support payment. If the
customer is declaring employment income during the period before the
cancellation date, they need to contact to have their income coded by a
Service Officer. The online reporting function will be unavailable
because of the PP cancellation status.

Claiming while still current on PP

[] If PP is cancelling as the customer’s youngest child is turning 6
(PPP) or 8 (PPS), the customer will be offered an online task 28 days
before the child’s birthday. This will offer:

-   a transfer to JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or,
-   if they want to test their eligibility for another income support
    payment, a link to the Payment and Service Finder

If the customer does not get the online task, or wants to claim a
payment other than JSP and cannot claim online, run Assisted Customer
Claim (ACC) after PP has been cancelled. Create a DOC detailing the
contact.

The actual cancellation date can be found on the:

-   Pensions Status History (PNSH) screen in the PEN system for
    Parenting Payment Single (PPS) customers
-   PPP Component History (PGCH) screen in the PGA system for Parenting
    Payment Partnered (PPP) customers

The Resources page has a link to the Payment and Service Finder on the
Services Australia website.

Related links

Cancellation, suspension and rejection codes for Parenting Payment (PP)

Commencing or returning to work or self-employment Parenting Payment
Single (PPS)

Commencing or returning to work or self-employment Parenting Payment
Partnered (PPP)

Extended entitlement to Concession Cards

Assessing and coding employment income

Helping families provide a reasonable annual income estimate for family
assistance payments

Updating income estimates for the current financial year

Assessment of dependent children, additional income free area and child
income under social security law

Assessment of employment income for Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP)
customers over Age Pension age

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
