
Changes in circumstances and the effect on participation for the principal carer of a dependent child 102-17010050

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how the principal carer of a dependent child who
is engaging in participation, may vary their Job Plan according to
changes in their circumstances.

Parents participating in certain programmes

This procedure does not apply to parents participating in ParentsNext.

Principal Carer participation requirements

The principal carer of a dependent child who is not subject to
compulsory mutual obligation requirements, and has negotiated voluntary
activities in a Job Plan may negotiate changes to these activities at
any time. Participation goals will be discussed and new activities,
referral options or additional support will be provided to ensure the
job seeker receives the assistance they require, based on their
individual and family circumstances, to achieve their preferred
participation outcomes.

See Eligibility to access employment assistance through Workforce
Australia for information on referrals to Workforce Australia.

Principal Carer with mutual obligation requirements

A Centrelink managed principal carer job seeker who is subject to mutual
obligation requirements may negotiate changes in their Job Plan when
required, however, any new activities must be appropriate and the Job
Plan must satisfy the minimum compulsory mutual obligation requirements.
Any previous provider negotiated activities and, expired and
inappropriate activities, should be removed from the Job Plan.

If a principal carer is not undertaking activities that are fully
meeting their mutual obligation requirements, and they do not have an
exemption from their requirements, they must be referred to an
Employment Services Provider who will negotiate a Job Plan and monitor
compliance with compulsory requirements.

Where a job seeker discloses circumstances that may impact compliance,
Service Officers update the Circumstances Impacting Compliance workflow
and reinforce the job seeker's personal responsibility for discussing
any factors that impact their capacity with their provider.

Change of circumstances and impact on participation

A job seeker who is the principal carer of a dependent child may contact
Services Australia to advise a change in their circumstances that may
impact on their ability to meet their mutual obligation requirements.

The following changes can affect the job seeker's mutual obligation
requirements:

-   A child leaving the job seeker's care. If the job seeker's child/ren
    under six leaves their care, participation may become compulsory
    rather than voluntary
-   A child entering the job seeker's care. If the job seeker gives
    birth or adopts a young child, participation is no longer compulsory
    if they have a dependent child under six in their care
-   Other changes which may qualify the job seeker for a temporary
    exemption from their compulsory mutual obligation requirements
-   Cancellation of payment or transfer to another income support
    payment. The job seeker may need to meet different requirements for
    the payment they are transferring to

Related links

Helping parents return to work

Mutual obligation requirements for principal carers

Voluntary participation for the principal carer of a dependent child

Mutual obligation requirements exemptions

Exempting a job seeker from mutual obligation requirements due to
special circumstances

Transfers to Parenting Payment (PP) and effect on participation

Transfers from Parenting Payment (PP) and effect on participation

Challenges faced by parents

Reviewing mutual obligation requirements for the principal carer of a
dependent child

Managing compliance with compulsory requirements

Circumstances impacting capacity to comply with compulsory requirement

First Contact Service Offer workflow

Shared care for social security payments

ParentsNext appointments and processing

ParentsNext suspension and restoration

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
