
Transfer from JobSeeker Payment (JSP)/Youth Allowance (YA) to Carer Payment 102-05080010

-   Background
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how a job seeker may be eligible to transfer to a
different payment such as Carer Payment (CP) if their caring
responsibilities suggest this is appropriate. If a job seeker has an
exemption from their Mutual Obligation Requirements due to caring
responsibilities, then an extension may be sought depending on their
circumstances.

On this Page:

Exemption due to caring responsibilities

A JobSeeker Payment (JSP)/Youth Allowance (YA) job seeker with an
exemption from Mutual Obligation Requirements due to caring
responsibilities can request an extension if circumstances change and
the person they are caring for needs care for a longer period of time.

It will be necessary to determine whether it is more appropriate to
grant an exemption for a further 13 weeks, or to consider eligibility
for another income support payment.

A more suitable payment may be Carer Payment (CP) and if appropriate the
customer can be transferred to CP. The carer may also be eligible for
Carer Allowance (CA) which is an income supplement that can be paid in
addition to JSP, CP, or another income support payment.

Identity Confirmation

The customer must satisfy the Identity Confirmation requirements for
JobSeeker Payment (JSP)/Youth Allowance (YA) job seeker and may need to
provide identity documents.

In most cases, a transferring customer would have an Identity
Confirmation Indicator of 'Confirmed' and additional identity documents
would not be required.

Working Credits

If the customer has working credits, they may retain them when
transferring to CP.

Related links

Identity Confirmation

Eligibility for Carer Payment (CP) when a care receiver is aged under 16

Eligibility for Carer Payment (CP) when a care receiver is aged 16 years
or over

Eligibility for Carer Allowance (CA) (child) when a customer is claiming
or receiving CA only

Eligibility for Carer Allowance (CA) when the care receiver is aged 16
years or over

Transfers to Carer Payment (CP)

Working Credit

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
