
Cancellation of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) PES payments 102-10020240

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the circumstances for cancellation of Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) PES payments.

Cancellation circumstances

A student may have their PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES payments cancelled
if:

-   they have had a change in their circumstances
-   they fail to comply with the requirements for payment
-   another type of payment is more beneficial, or
-   they voluntarily cease payment

Payments can be cancelled either automatically or manually.

Automatic cancellation

Automatic cancellation of PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES occurs following
reassessments that result in no continuing qualification to a PES,
ABSTUDY PES, AIC PES or their qualifying benefit, or if the student is
no longer undertaking approved study.

ABSTUDY PES will be cancelled automatically if the customer's qualifying
payment of Parenting Payment Single (PPS) has cancelled due to:

-   the customer's youngest child turning 8 years of age

In these cases, the customer will normally be automatically transferred
to

-   JobSeeker Payment (JSP), or
-   Youth Allowance (YA) (job seeker)

On transfer to one of these qualifying payments, the customer's
entitlement to ABSTUDY PES will be reassessed and the payment restored
if they are eligible. ABSTUDY PES will continue to be paid until the
customer has completed the course they commenced while in receipt of
their previous qualifying payment, under existing ABSTUDY progress rules
(reasonable time and limits of assistance).

Manual Cancellation

Manual cancellations are needed where the loss of qualification is not
the end result of a reassessment but the result of a decision to cancel
PES, ABSTUDY PES, or AIC PES payments.

For example, a student or AIC applicant has asked Services Australia to
cancel PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES payments (despite still being
eligible) or a Service Officer has decided payments should be cancelled
due to the student or AIC applicant's failure to reply to
correspondence.

PES, ABSTUDY PES and AIC PES payments are cancelled temporarily for
customers transferring from a qualifying payment to Jobseeker Payment. A
manual cancellation is needed due to a system limitation and is followed
by a restoration, once the YA or JSP claim has been finalised.

See, Cancellation of, or changes to qualifying payment for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES or Assistance for Isolated
Children PES.

Language, Literacy and Numeracy Supplement (LLNS) and Skills for Education and Employment (SEE)

Customers who wish to participate in Skills for Education and Employment
(SEE) and do not qualify for PES, may be eligible for the Language,
Literacy and Numeracy Supplement (LLNS) of $20.80 per fortnight.

The supplement provides financial assistance for job seekers who want to
improve their English language, literacy or numeracy skills as part of
their plan to return to work. This assistance is to enable job seekers
undertaking SEE to meet the additional costs associated with attendance
and provides added incentives for them to participate in the program.

Date of Effect Rules

The General Date of Effect Rules apply to PES and are covered under the
Social Security Guide 3.10.5.10. They do not apply to ABSTUDY PES and
AIC PES.

Cancellations of PES, ABSTUDY PES or AIC PES

Cancellations of PES are handled by various Service Officers depending
on the type of PES payment:

ABSTUDY PES - Service Officers in ABSTUDY Processing Services or Service
Centres that deal with ABSTUDY. See Processing arrangements for ABSTUDY
and ABSTUDY PES.

Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme - Service Officers in AIC
Smart Centre Processing only.

PES - Service Officers in Service Centres and Smart Centres should only
cancel PES in the following situations:

-   voluntary surrender - if the customer has requested for PES to be
    cancelled
-   automatic cancellation as a result of the cancellation of the
    customer's qualifying payment
-   if a customer has advised that they have ceased study

Related links

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and Assistance for
isolated children (AIC) PES cancellation, suspension and rejection codes

Coding new study details

Deferring or discontinuing study before end of course for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES) and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC)
Scheme

Suspension of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and
Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) PES payments

Restoration of Pensioner Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES and
Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) PES payments

ABSTUDY Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) qualifications

Codes for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme cancellation,
suspension and rejection reasons

Eligibility for Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES)

Pensioner Education Supplement (PES) and ABSTUDY PES qualifications

Cancellation of, or changes to qualifying payment for Pensioner
Education Supplement (PES), ABSTUDY PES or Assistance for Isolated
Children PES

Language, Literacy and Numeracy Supplement (LLNS)

Small debt waivers

Payment of ABSTUDY when a student is deferring or discontinuing study
before the end of the course

Customer will not commence full-time study for Youth Allowance (YA),
Austudy and Pensioner Education Supplement (PES)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
