
Compulsory Income Management (CIM) for Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipients (LTWPR) 103-01170000

-   Background
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines Income Management (IM) under the Disengaged Youth
(DEY) and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipients (LTWPR) measures.

On this Page:

Income Management overview

Income Management is compulsory for customers identified under the
Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipient (LTWPR)
measures.

These measures are directed at groups of income support payment
recipients, based on the period of time on income support and at a
higher risk of disengagement from economic and social participation. The
measures address the Government's objective to promote responsibility
and strengthen families by setting aside a percentage of a customer's
welfare payment to be spent on priority needs.

Eligibility for DEY and LTWPR

Customers are identified for Income Management under the DEY and LTWPR
measure if they live in, move permanently to, or change their
Term/Semester address to the Northern Territory and they are:

-   aged 15 to 24 years inclusive and who have been in receipt of a
    category E welfare payment for more than three of the last 6 months
-   aged 25 years and not reached Age Pension age and who have been in
    receipt of a category E welfare payment for more than one year in
    the last two years

For more detailed information see Identifying customers for Income
Management under the Disengaged Youth (DEY) measure.

Percentage of payments for IM

Under the Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipient
(LTWPR) measures, category I welfare payments (which includes category H
welfare payments) are income managed at 50% and 100% of lump sum
payments income managed.

There are specific payments not income managed.

Exemptions from IM

Customers who are identified for Income Management, or are being income
managed, under the Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long Term Welfare Payment
Recipient (LTWPR) categories can apply for an exemption from Income
Management.

For customers without dependent children, an exemption recognises those
young people and long-term unemployed customer who have taken personal
initiative through participation in education, training or regular
employment.

For customers with dependent children, an exemption recognises
responsible parenting and Services Australia is satisfied the customer
had no signs of financial vulnerability in the previous 12 months.

Contents

Identifying customers for Income Management under the Disengaged Youth
(DEY) measure

Identifying customers for Income Management under the Long Term Welfare
Payment Recipients (LTWPR) measure

Initial Assessment interview for Disengaged Youth and Long Term Welfare
Payment Recipients

Disbursement interview for Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long Term Welfare
Payment Recipient (LTWPR) Income Management

Related links

Customers requesting an exemption from Income Management

Hierarchy and movement between Income Management (IM) measures -
Overview

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
