-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to conduct an Initial Assessment interview to
place a customer onto Income Management under the Vulnerable Welfare
Payment Recipient (VWPR) measure.

Initial Assessment interview

An Initial Assessment interview is needed to place a customer on
Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VWPR) measures. The interview:

-   explains how Income Management (IM) works
-   decides how their income managed funds can be best used to meet the
    priority needs of the customer and their family, and
-   gives information about other services which may help them,
    including Centrepay

The interview can be held face to face or over the phone. This is
conducted with the customer and if applicable, their partner or payment
nominee.

Automatically triggered VWPR Youth Income Management customers may be
eligible for an exclusion from IM. Only social workers can decide if a
customer is eligible for an exclusion. At the Initial Assessment
interview, Service Officers will assess if the customer should be
referred to a social worker for an exclusion assessment. Customers can
also request an exclusion, which must be referred to a social worker.

Failure to attend interview

If a customer does not attend an Initial Assessment interview within
their Income Management engagement period, IM will be automatically
applied to their payments.

If a customer still does not attend an Initial Assessment interview
within 28 days of Auto Income Management starting, their payments may be
suspended.

The Resources page contains links to the Services Australia website and
contact details for Technical Support Line and National Business
Gateway.

Related links

Income Management for Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VWPR)

Initial Assessment of Income Management

Recording Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR) Youth Exclusion
(Detrimental) Assessments - social work

Exclusions for automatically triggered Vulnerable Welfare Payment
Recipients (VWPR) Youth Income Management for Service Officers

Determining an exclusion from automatically triggered Vulnerable Welfare
Payment Recipient (VWPR Youth) Income Management by social workers

Reviewing, reconsidering and ending Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient
(VWPR) Notices by social workers

Determining a person's priority needs for Income Management

Coding Income Management expenses

Auto Income Management and suspension of payments when a customer fails
to attend Initial Assessment interview

Transitioning new Rent Deduction Scheme (RDS) instruction to Income
Management

Updating an existing Rent Deduction Scheme (RDS) deduction for a
customer who has commenced Income Management

Social work service referral

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
