
Determining an exclusion from automatically triggered Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR Youth) Income Management by social workers 103-01180040

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how social workers assess and record exclusions
for customers automatically triggered for the VWPR Youth Income
Management measure.

VWPR Youth Income Management customer groups

The following customers who live in a VWPR Income Management area will
automatically be identified for VWPR Youth Income Management if they are
aged:

-   under 16 years and getting Special Benefit (SpB-USY)
-   16 years or over and getting an independent rate of Youth Allowance
    (YA), Disability Support Pension (DSP) or ABSTUDY Living Allowance
    due to meeting the Unreasonable to Live at Home (UTLAH) criteria, or
-   under 25 years and received a Crisis Payment (CrP) in the last 13
    weeks due to prison or release from psychiatric confinement

Customers will not be identified for Income Management if they are a
full time student or Australian Apprentice, or currently on Voluntary
Income Management.

VWPR Youth Income Management Exclusion categories

Customers will automatically be granted an exclusion from VWPR Youth
Income Management if they have received less than 25% of their maximum
basic rate of payment for at least 4 out of the last 6 fortnights.
Non-payment periods or reduced rates of payment due to non-compliance
are not included when determining eligibility. However, customers may
ask to be assessed for this exclusion if they believe they meet this
criteria. The Income Management Exemption and Assessment Team (IMEAT)
determines exclusions from VWPR Youth Income Management due to rate of
payment.

The above exclusion does not require a social worker assessment.

Social workers may determine a VWPR Youth Income Management customer is
eligible for an exclusion for the following reasons:

Income Management would place the customer's mental, physical or
emotional wellbeing at risk: includes situations where a customer:

-   cannot meaningfully engage with the agency due to mental health
    issues, or
-   does not have the capacity to comprehend the operation of Income
    Management, or
-   is experiencing serious instability in their housing or living
    situation and Income Management would substantially impair their
    ability to meet housing costs.

Income Management is 'Not Practicable due to Support & Demonstrated
Capacity' as the customer has been on VWPR Youth Income Management for
12 months, and they have:

-   successfully engaged in a supportive relationship that provided
    mentoring, coaching or case management that included a transition to
    independence, or
-   demonstrated the skills and ability to manage their money and to
    live independently, and
-   satisfied the social worker that they are likely to continue
    participating in appropriate activities/supportive arrangements and
    therefore do not need to remain on Income Management.

Customer's right to request an exclusion

If customers do not meet the exclusion criteria, they can still request
an exclusion from Income Management. If a VWPR Youth customer requests
an exclusion this is to be assessed and the outcome documented.

If a VWPR Youth Income Management exclusion assessment is not
undertaken, the social worker must clearly outline the reasons for this,
and include details of discussion with the customer and any other
support provided.

Exclusions from VWPR Youth Income Management can be requested under this
measure every 90 days.

Outcome of VWPR Youth IM exclusion assessments

After completing a VWPR Youth Income Management exclusion assessment,
the social worker must record the outcome of the exclusion assessment,
whether granting or rejecting the application.

The outcome of all exclusion assessments are recorded via the Vulnerable
Youth IM exclusion workflow. Social Work Information System (SWIS)
reports are also required. See Process for details of recording
requirements for each exclusion category.

Although not compulsory, customers granted exclusions can choose to
attend a Disbursement interview with a Service Officer. At this
interview, the discussion will include, among other things, how any
residual Income Management funds are to be disbursed, and the option to
continue with Voluntary Income Management (if eligible). If customers do
not make contact to discuss the disbursement of their residual Income
Management funds the Auto Disbursement rules will apply.

Period of exclusion

If a social worker determines the customer is eligible for an exclusion,
they will exclude the customer from VWPR Youth Income Management for a
period of 12 months. A new exclusion assessment is required if the
exclusion is to be granted for a further 12 months.

Social workers are able to end the exclusion period early if required,
which may result in the customer being eligible for Income Management,
providing they meet all eligibility criteria. An exclusion assessment
must be completed if ending prior to the 12 month period.

Note: customers granted an exclusion because Income Management would
place their wellbeing at risk will be automatically excluded from
Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipients (LTWPR)
Income Management during this period.

Loss of eligibility

Customer's income managed under VWPR Youth Income Management can request
to exit Income Management if they:

-   no longer meet the Unreasonable to Live at Home (UTLAH) criteria of
    independence
-   do not receive Special Benefit under 16 years of age (SpB-USY), or
-   are over 25 years of age

A Service Officer or social worker can exit customers in these
circumstances. For more information see Exclusions from automatically
triggered VWPR Youth Income Management for Service Officers.

Internal review of an original determination

The original determination establishes the customer is eligible for the
automatically triggered VWPR Youth Income Management measure. The system
determines this, it is not a social worker decision.

The normal review and appeal process applies. Customers can at any time
request an explanation or apply for a formal review of the original
determination to apply VWPR Youth Income Management.

An explanation will be provided by a Subject Matter Expert (SME). A
formal review will be undertaken by an Authorised Review Officer (ARO).

Internal review of an exclusion decision

Customers can request an explanation or apply for a formal review of the
social worker's decision to reject a request for an exclusion from
automatically triggered VWPR Youth Income Management.

Under the review and appeal process:

a SME social worker who was not the original decision maker will

-   explain the exclusion decision to the customer, and
-   determine if the customer's exclusion assessment is correct

an ARO will undertake a formal review of an exclusion decision

Restrictions on the customer requesting another exclusion from VWPR
Youth Income Management (once every 90 days) does not stop the customer
from applying for a formal review of the original determination.

Note: a new Social Worker Information System (SWIS) VWPR report is
required if new information is provided and the original decision is to
be set aside.

VWPR Youth customer moves out of declared IM area

When a VWPR Youth Income Management customer moves out of a declared
Income Management area, they will stay on Income Management subject to
the same rules that would have applied if they had remained in the
Income Management declared area.

They will stay on Income Management for at least 12 months, unless one
of the following occurs:

A social worker grants an exclusion from Income Management.

The customer no longer has one of the eligible triggers, and requests to
be exited from Income Management.

The customer loses eligibility for VWPR Income Management in another
way, such as:

-   their qualifying trigger payment is cancelled and they are not
    restored/re-granted within 13 weeks of cancellation
-   they have an excluded payment nominee, or
-   they become eligible for an Income Management measure higher in the
    hierarchy.

The Resources page contains further information on declared Income
Management areas.

Related links

Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VWPR) Income Management

Eligibility for Income Management under the Vulnerable Welfare Payment
Recipient (VWPR) measure

Exclusions for automatically triggered Vulnerable Welfare Payment
Recipients (VWPR) Youth Income Management for Service Officers

Determining and recording eligibility for Income Management as a
Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR) by a social worker

Reviews of income management decisions

Recording Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR) Youth Exclusion
(Detrimental) Assessments in the Social Work Information System (SWIS)

Recording Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR) Youth Exclusion
(Not Practicable due to Support and Demonstrated Capacity) Assessments
in the Social Work Information System (SWIS)

Determining an exclusion from automatically triggered Vulnerable Welfare
Payment Recipient (VWPR) Income Management due to rate of payment

Disbursement interview for Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VPWR)
Income Management

Customer moves out of an Income Management area

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
