[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines measures to assist customers who are experiencing
difficulties in budgeting.

Payment nominee

A payment nominee may be appointed for the customer. A payment nominee
will receive all the customer's Centrelink payments on their behalf.
When a person is appointed a payment nominee they must act in the best
interests of the customer, ensuring that these payments are used
exclusively for the customer's benefit.

Payment nominees can be appointed voluntarily by the customer or be
involuntarily appointed by a court, for example, Guardianship board.
Where the arrangement is court appointed only the nominee can cancel the
arrangement. A voluntary arrangement can be cancelled by either the
customer or the nominee.

Centrepay

Centrepay is a free and voluntary service that allows customers to have
payments deducted directly from the nominated income support payment
each fortnight and transferred directly to a Centrepay Third Party
Organisation (TPO) to pay bills, such as private rent, electricity, gas,
water and telephone. Deductions are made before the customer's income
support payments are deposited into their bank account.

Rent Deduction Scheme

The Rent Deduction Scheme is of a similar nature. The government housing
payment, for example, government rent, repayment of housing loans,
arrears or other debts, is automatically deducted from the nominated
income support payment and transferred directly to the Housing
Authority. Deductions are made before the customer's income support
payments are deposited into their bank account. These services help to
ensure essential payments are made before the remaining income support
payment is accessed, and assists the customer to better manage their
budget by paying their bills in manageable amounts.

Weekly payments

Weekly payments are available to customers who meet the eligibility
criteria. This allows the customer to receive half of the net value of
their payment in the first week of the payment fortnight.

Referral to specialists

Customers who experience difficulties in budgeting may be referred to a
social worker or the Indigenous Service Officer (ISO), as appropriate,
for further help and to see if other options are available to assist
them.

Related links

Accepting information from and disclosing information to a Power of
Attorney

Nominees

Adding or rejecting a nominee request

Obligations of nominees

Payments to third parties

Centrepay

Rent Deduction Scheme (RDS)

Weekly payments

Assessing, coding and reviewing weekly payments

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
