
BasicsCard merchant eligibility and approval 103-01230130

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information on the eligibility provisions and
approval process for a store or business to become a BasicsCard
merchant.

On this Page:

Applying to be a BasicsCard Merchant

Businesses can apply to be a BasicsCard merchant by downloading and
completing a BasicsCard Merchant Application form from the Services
Australia website. Businesses should also download and read the
BasicsCard Merchant Terms and, if applicable, the BasicsCard Special
Conditions for Taxi cab and Minibus.

Businesses can also download and read the BasicsCard Merchant Approval
Framework. This contains the Department of Social Services' (DSS) policy
guidelines which outline merchant eligibility for BasicsCard approval.

See the Resources page for a link to the Applying to use BasicsCard
payment method web page which links to all four documents.

Businesses can contact the Income Management and BasicsCard Helpdesk for
assistance and further information. The helpdesk is also able to email
any of the above documents to businesses at their request. See the
Resources page for a link to contact details for the Income Management
and BasicsCard Helpdesk.

Process when an application is received

Once a BasicsCard Merchant Application is received, a record is created
for the new merchant via digital imaging and the business application is
attached to the merchant's record. New records are only created as
necessary. Applications are scanned to an existing record where a record
exists.

The business application is then processed by the National Business
Gateway's (NBG) Business Applications & Registration Team.

Eligible merchants

To be eligible to become a BasicsCard merchant, the requirements are as
follows:

-   the main business activity of the merchant is the sale of priority
    goods and services or other eligible goods and services
-   the ability to prevent the sale of excluded goods and services, and
-   sales in terms of dollar value of excluded goods and services is
    less than 50 per cent of the total annual dollar value turnover

In the Northern Territory Food Security Area, merchants may also be
required to hold a Community Store Licence to be eligible for
BasicsCard.

DSS may determine that a merchant, who is not otherwise eligible for
BasicsCard, should be considered eligible if exceptional circumstances
exist. This may occur if the merchant:

-   is the only reliable source of food security in a community, and/or
-   provides an essential service that is necessary for meeting
    essential needs

Ineligible merchants

Merchants are not eligible for BasicsCard approval if their main
business activity is not the sale of priority goods and services or
other eligible goods and services.

The following categories of merchants are not eligible for BasicsCard:

-   door-to-door sales businesses
-   cafes that sell alcohol
-   restaurants

Merchant withdrawal

If a Business has asked to be withdrawn from the BasicsCard programme
(Voluntary Withdrawal), send an email to the BasicsCard Merchant
Helpdesk in National Business Gateway. See Resources.

The helpdesk will issue a Q723 BasicsCard Merchant – Voluntary
Termination OLA letter. Change the merchant status in the BasicsCard
Merchant Registration Workflow to withdrawn, deactivate the terminals
and DOC the record.

If the business is being terminated as a result of a compliance action,
the TPO programme assurance team in Deduction and Confirmation Branch
will supply a termination letter. See Resources for a link to the branch
intranet page. The request to deactivate the merchant’s EFTPOS terminals
from accepting the BasicsCard and updates to the BasicsCard contract
workflow can then be sent to the BasicsCard Merchant Helpdesk.

BasicsCard Organisation Finder service

The 'Find a business or organisation' search facility available on the
Services Australia Website can be used to search for BasicsCard approved
businesses.

Resources contains links to the BasicsCard for businesses page, and the
Applying to use BasicsCard payment method page on the Services Australia
Website. It also contains a link to the 'Find a business or
organisation' search tool, the BasicsCard Merchant Approval Framework
Procedural Guide, contact information for the Income Management and
BasicsCard Helpdesk and the BasicsCard and Welfare Quarantining
Programme Management Intranet page.

Related links

BasicsCard

BasicsCard information for Merchants

Business and organisation search tools

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
