
BasicsCard reactivate posted or previously suspended card 103-01230050

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the action required when a customer/payment
nominee requests a suspended BasicsCard to be reactivated.

The BasicsCard may have been suspended previously due to it being:

-   reported as lost or stolen and has since been found
-   issued and posted to the customer in the mail

On this Page:

What is a BasicsCard

The BasicsCard is an allocation method for income managed funds, to
allow a customer to meet their and their family's priority needs.

BasicsCard has been suspended

A customer or payment nominee can contact to reactivate a suspended
BasicsCard.

A BasicsCard will be suspended using the reason 'other' when it has been
posted in the mail.

BasicsCard posted in the mail

Customers/nominees who have a BasicsCard posted in the mail need to
reactivate the card and change the PIN before they can use it. Once the
customer/nominee get the BasicsCard in the mail, they will contact
Services Australia for support with these actions. See BasicsCard
request to change Personal Identification Number (PIN) for support with
this part of the process.

BasicsCard blocked due to incorrect PIN

If a customer enters their Personal Identification Number (PIN)
incorrectly six times at a BasicsCard Merchant, the BasicsCard PIN will
be 'blocked' by the Card Transaction Provider (CTP).

If a customer/payment nominee has a BasicsCard that is 'blocked', the
card will remain 'blocked' until the customer/payment nominee contacts.
These BasicsCards can be 'unblocked' by the customer/payment nominee
changing or resetting their PIN.

BasicsCard has been closed

If a BasicsCard has been 'Closed', it is not able to be reactivated and
customer/payment nominee will need to attend a face-to-face interview to
obtain a replacement BasicsCard.

The Resources page contains a link to the BasicsCard Alternative
Interface, the BasicsCard Contingency Support System, the BasicsCard
intranet page and contact details in Office Locator.

Related links

BasicsCard

Initial offer or replacement of BasicsCard

BasicsCard customer reports a lost, stolen or damaged card

BasicsCard a third party reports card was found

Inventory Tracking System (ITS) for temporary Cashless Debit Cards and
BasicsCards

Managing Income Management funds

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
