
Overview and hierarchy of Income Management measures 103-01010000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the different measures of Income Management (IM)
and the hierarchy used to determine under which measure a customer will
be income managed.

On this Page:

Income Management overview

Income Management works by setting aside a percentage of a customer's
fortnightly entitlement to certain payments. A percentage of a
customer's welfare payment is directed to meeting priority needs such as
food, clothing and accommodation. The remaining percentage of a
customer's payments is paid to them in the usual way to be used at their
discretion.

Deductions such as child support and government debt repayments are
taken into account before payments are income managed. Income managed
funds are allocated on the customer's behalf to help pay for the
identified priority needs of the customer and their family.

For all measures, 100% of ABSTUDY (with Living Allowance or Pensioner
Education Supplement) payments and 100% of lump sum payments are income
managed. There are specific payments not income managed.

Hierarchy of Income Management measures

A customer could be eligible for more than one Income Management measure
at the same point of time. In these cases, a hierarchy is used to
determine under which measure the customer will be income managed.

The hierarchy from highest to lowest measure is:

-   Child Protection Income Management (CPIM)
-   Supporting People at Risk (SPaR)
-   Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipient (VWPR) Income Management
-   Compulsory Income Management (CIM) - Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long
    Term Welfare Payment Recipient (LTWPR)
-   Voluntary Income Management (VIM) Note: VIM is only higher than
    Nominee Income Management (NIM) if the customer has a current VIM
    Agreement

Each measure can be applied only in the hierarchy order. For example, if
a customer is income managed under CIM but a Notice to Commence Income
Management is received from a State or Territory Child Protection
Authority, the customer will be transferred to CPIM.

If a customer's Income Management ends and they are eligible for a lower
measure, they will be income managed under that measure. For example, a
VWPR customer may have an underlying eligibility for Income Management
under the LTWPR measure. When the customer is no longer eligible for
VWPR, the customer will continue to be income managed under the LTWPR
measure.

Child Protection Income Management (CPIM)

Customers in a declared Income Management area can be referred for
Income Management by a State or Territory Child Protection Authority.

Percentage of payment for IM

Under Child Protection Income Management, 70% of a customer's category I
welfare payment (which includes a category H welfare payment) is income
managed.

Supporting People at Risk (SPaR)

Customers can be referred for Income Management by an approved referring
authority. Currently this measure is only available in the Northern
Territory.

Percentage of payment for IM

Under Supporting People at Risk Income Management, 70% of a customer's
category I welfare payment (which includes a category H welfare payment)
is income managed.

Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VWPR)

There are two methods for identifying customers for Income Management
under the Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VWPR) measure:

VWPR Notice - a Services Australia social worker can determine a
customer is eligible for Income Management under this measure; and

Automatically identified VWPR - the following groups of customers will
automatically be identified for VWPR Income Management if they are not a
full time student or apprentice, or currently on Voluntary Income
Management, and are:

-   aged under 16 years and in receipt of a Special Benefit (SpB-USY)
-   16 years of age or over and in receipt of an independent rate of
    Youth Allowance, Disability Support Pension or ABSTUDY Living
    Allowance due to meeting the Unreasonable to Live at Home (UTLAH)
    status, or
-   under the age of 25 and receive a Crisis Payment (CrP) within the
    last 13 weeks due to prison release

Percentage of payment for IM

Under Vulnerable Welfare Payment Recipients (VWPR) Income Management,
50% of a customer's category I welfare payment (which includes a
category H welfare payment) is income managed.

CIM - Disengaged Youth (DEY) and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipients (LTWPR)

Customers in the Northern Territory will be identified as potentially
eligible for Compulsory Income Management (CIM) - Disengaged Youth (DEY)
and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipients (LTWPR) customers based on
their usual place of residence, income support payment type, length of
time in receipt of an income support payment and age.

Percentage of payment for IM

Under the Disengaged Youth and Long Term Welfare Payment Recipient
measures of Income Management, 50% of a customer's category E welfare
payment and category I welfare payment is income managed.

Voluntary Income Management (VIM)

Customers in a declared income Management area can volunteer to have
their payments income managed because they need assistance with
financial management to meet financial responsibilities.

A State or Territory Child Protection Authority or approved referring
authority can also refer a customer to Services Australia for Voluntary
Income Management (VIM), however customers are under no obligation to
attend an appointment or enter into a VIM.

Customers who are on VIM before they are identified for VWPR can remain
on VIM. If these customers request to exit VIM they should be made aware
that if they terminate their VIM Agreement they may be income managed
under the VWPR measure.

Percentage of payment for IM

Under Voluntary Income Management, 50% of a customer's category I
welfare payment (which includes a category H welfare payment) is income
managed.

Payment Nominee impact on Income Management

A principal for Income Management purposes will have their payments
income managed under the same compulsory measure as their payment
nominee, unless they qualify for a different Income Management measure
on their own.

For more information see Nominee Income Management.

Customers move out of an Income Management area

Customers whose payments are currently income managed and who move
indefinitely or permanently outside of a declared Income Management area
will continue to have their payments income managed.

Customers who have been identified for Income Management, and move out
of a declared Income Management area before Income Management commences,
or provide a retrospective change of address, may still have their
payments income managed.

For more information see Customer moves out of an Income Management
area.

The Resources page contains a link to further information on declared
Income Management areas, and the Income Management intranet page.

Contents

Moving between Income Management measures

Nominee arrangements under Income Management

Initial assessment of Income Management

Related links

Identification and eligibility for Income Management

Customers requesting an exemption from Income Management

Exclusions for automatically triggered Vulnerable Welfare Payment
Recipient (VWPR) Youth Income Management for Service Officers

Identifying and assisting income managed customers

Customer moves out of an Income Management area

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
