
BasicsCard close an account 103-01230070

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to determine when a BasicsCard account should
be closed.

On this Page:

When to close a BasicsCard account

BasicsCard accounts should only be closed if the customer is deceased,
exempted and/or exits from Income Management and does not wish to use
the BasicsCard to reduce their Income Management balance.

BasicsCard status on exit from Income Management

If a customer exits from Income Management, the BasicsCard can remain
open for 60 days. The customer can continue to use the BasicsCard during
these 60 days. After 60 days the BasicsCard will be closed and any
remaining funds on the BasicsCard will be automatically recalled to the
Income Management Account. If the customer returns to Income Management
within 60 days, the BasicsCard will automatically remain current (if it
has not been closed).

Closed BasicsCard cannot be reactivated

If the BasicsCard has been closed the BasicsCard cannot be reactivated,
and a new BasicsCard will need to be issued at the next available
opportunity.

Closure of account requested

In a situation where the customer/payment nominee chooses to close their
account voluntarily, it is essential that a discussion with the
customer/payment nominee is undertaken to ensure their priority needs
are being met by other regular deductions and they have no further need
for a BasicsCard. In general, it is preferable not to close a BasicsCard
account, but to encourage the customer/payment nominee to keep the
BasicsCard in case they can use it as a payment option at a later date.

Note: if a customer requires a replacement BasicsCard and they have a
current BasicsCard, the BasicsCard account does not need to be closed. A
replacement BasicsCard can only be issued in a face-to-face interview.

Related links

BasicsCard

BasicsCard reported as lost, stolen, damaged or found

Inventory Tracking System (ITS) for temporary Cashless Debit Cards and
BasicsCards

Managing Income Management funds

Determining a person's priority needs for Income Management

Death of an income managed customer

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
