
Requesting the return of a direct credit, New Payments Platform (NPP) or Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) payment made to an incorrect recipient 103-04040110

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the action to take when a customer or third party
advise that a payment has been sent to an incorrect recipient, including
where the payment was made to an invalid account (for example, the
account number was incorrectly keyed).

This procedure covers requesting the refund of a direct credit, New
Payments Platform (NPP) or Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) payment
from a financial institution to recover payments delivered to an
incorrect recipient.

Correct recipient - incorrect account

This procedure cannot be used to request a refund if the payment has
been sent to the correct person but to the incorrect account, for
example, an account they provided but no longer have legal access to. In
these cases, request the refund from the financial institution where the
payment has been made to an incorrect account.

Incorrect payment recipient

Where the recipient of the incorrect payment is known and the funds were
not misdirected as part of potential fraud, the recipient must be
contacted before any request for return. This is so the recipient is not
left in hardship by the return of the funds. Extreme care must be taken
to protect the identity and privacy of the customer and the incorrect
recipient (who may also be a customer).

The Resources page contains links to mySupport, Level 2 Policy Help
Desk, and the Income Management helpdesk webform for policy or
procedural queries.

Related links

Replacement payments

Replacing direct credit, New Payments Platform (NPP) or Real Time Gross
Settlement (RTGS) payments at a customer's request

Replacing direct credit, New Payments Platform (NPP) or Real Time Gross
Settlement (RTGS) payments returned from financial institution

Changing payment destination

Protection of customer payments

Processing a returned payment

Requesting refunds from third parties

Under 18 year old Youth Allowance (YA) or ABSTUDY customer wants to stop
payment going to parents

Requesting refunds and raising debts for payments made after death of
customer

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
