
BasicsCard offer and issue of initial BasicsCard 103-01230010

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

From 17 March 2021, Income Management (IM) customers based in the
Northern Territory (NT) can permanently transition to the Cashless Debit
Card (CDC) program. Customers on an income support payment who are
living in the NT and are not currently on IM, will be able to volunteer
for the Cashless Debit Card (CDC) from this date.
For more information on this process or to initiate an IM to CDC
transition, see Income Management (IM) to Cashless Debit Card (CDC)
Transition in the Northern Territory, which also contains staff
resources and links to the transition overview Intranet page for
additional information.

This document outlines information on how to determine if a customer is
eligible for a BasicsCard and how to issue a new BasicsCard.

On this Page:

What is a BasicsCard

The BasicsCard is an allocation method for income managed funds, to
allow a customer to meet their and their family's priority needs. A
BasicsCard is available to Income Management customers only.

BasicsCard eligibility

All customers who are income managed are eligible to receive a
BasicsCard to access their income managed funds to purchase essential
goods and services at approved merchants. The BasicsCard is a voluntary
option and customers can choose not to be issued a BasicsCard if there
are suitable allocation options to meet their and their family's
priority needs.

Who can issue a BasicsCard

A BasicsCard can be issued by Service Officers at Centrelink Service
Centres, Remote Service Centres or by a Remote Servicing Team (RST). The
Service Officer must have a stock of BasicsCards, Centrelink system
connectivity and issue the card in a face-to-face interview with the
customer.

Allocating funds to the BasicsCard

From 13 June 2016 there will be changes to the way customers receive
funds to their BasicsCard. All customers will be transitioned onto one
of two models – the Residual Payment method or the Partial Payment
method.

Customers are able to change their BasicsCard allocation method by
contacting Services Australia.

[] Customers can also allocate funds to their BasicsCard through online
services or by contacting Services Australia. See Coding Income
Management Expenses for more information on allocating funds to the
BasicsCard.

PIN security

When issuing a BasicsCard to the customer, Service Officers must ensure
the card holder is advised of the importance of keeping their BasicsCard
and Personal Identification Number (PIN) secure, and not sharing their
card or PIN with anyone.

Purchases with multiple BasicsCards

If a BasicsCard merchant is aware that a person is making multiple
purchase transactions, and paying by different BasicsCards, the merchant
should check whether the person is a payment nominee, by referencing the
payment nominee's name thermally printed on the front of the BasicsCard
or manually written on the back of the BasicsCard. Merchants should not
permit different BasicsCards to be used to pay for multiple purchase
transactions where the person is not a payment nominee.

The Resources page contains links to the Services Australia Website for
BasicsCard, Centrepay and Income Management. It also contains BasicsCard
Customer Information Packs and Card Wallets information, Pebble setup
and maintenance, Ordinary maintenance and BasicsCard Video on Demand
(VOD).

Related links

BasicsCard

Nominee arrangements under Income Management

BasicsCard customer reports a lost, stolen or damaged card

BasicsCard replacement of card

BasicsCard changing daily spend, maximum card balance limits and
allocation method

Inventory Tracking System (ITS) for temporary Cashless Debit Cards and
BasicsCards

BasicsCard reactivate previously suspended card

Managing Income Management funds

Determining a person's priority needs for Income Management

BasicsCard request to change Personal Identification Number (PIN)

BasicsCard balance or transaction summary enquiry

BasicsCard a third party reports card was found

BasicsCard close an account

Recall of funds from a BasicsCard to a customer's Income Management
account

BasicsCard dispute resolution

BasicsCard information for Merchants

BasicsCard merchant eligibility and approval

Generic Income Management and BasicsCard Work Items

Income Management and BasicsCard self service options

Transfer BasicsCard funds to Income Management account online

Managing Income Management funds

Business and organisation search tools

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
