
Foreign pension claims 106-08010000

-   Background
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information on the requirement to claim a
Comparable Foreign Payment (CFP) and the process of assisting customers
to claim. A different procedure applies for foreign pension coding.

On this Page:

Foreign pension coding

A different procedure applies for foreign pension coding.

Requirement to claim

Unless an exemption applies, social security law requires a person who
is in receipt of a designated Australian payment to claim any CFP to
which they may be entitled. Unlike the broader term "foreign pension", a
CFP refers to those foreign pensions that are comparable to Australian
pensions on the basis of old age, invalidity or survivorship.

Policy advice is that, for customers who live in Australia, the
requirement to claim applies to old-age/retirement (AGE),
disability/invalidity (INV) and widow/widower (SUR) foreign pensions
from agreement countries and old-age/retirement (AGE) pensions from
certain high volume non-agreement countries.

Limited information on qualifications for these payments is maintained
for decision-making on compulsory claims but all other assistance with
making a claim is on a voluntary basis.

Only customers in receipt of Disability Support Pension (DSP) are
screened for foreign disability/invalidity (INV) pensions and screening
for widow/widower (SUR) pensions is limited in most cases to the
surviving partner where a person who receives a foreign pension from the
agreement country dies.

Although it may be a requirement, the grant of a CFP is in the
customer's interest as it generally increases their disposable income
due to the income free area and the tapered reduction in the income
tests. Foreign pensions paid into Australia also contribute to the
overall Australian economy by increasing the foreign currency received
into Australia and reducing Australian social security outlays.

Claiming and maintaining a foreign pension is not normally difficult and
Services Australia provides assistance free of charge. If in doubt,
customers should be encouraged to make a claim.

However, once a notice is issued, a customer who does not take
reasonable action to pursue a claim for a CFP may have their Australian
payment suspended.

Foreign pension authorities may also review the entitlement of a person
who receives a pension, including a requirement to provide information,
for example, life certificates. A customer who does not take reasonable
action to maintain their foreign pension will generally be subject to
Deprivation rules.

Foreign Pension System (FPS)

FPS processes automatically assess whether a customer who is in receipt
of a designated Australian payment may be entitled to claim a foreign
pension and is used to issue claim forms and notices to customers. FPS
processes also sets specific reviews to track the progress of a claim
from start to finish.

A 'screening' result is derived by comparing factors such as a
customer's age and amount of time they have lived in the other country,
recorded on the Country of Residence (CRES) screen, to known information
about foreign pensions.

Screening is triggered by certain system processes including future
automated reviews that are set where customers have lived in targeted
countries but are not yet old enough to qualify for a foreign pension.
Screening is triggered by:

-   FPS age review maturing
-   new claim or restoration activities
-   changes to CRES screen data, or
-   setting the Severely Disabled: field on the Pension Disability
    Information (PDI) screen to 'Y'

The FPS screening result then determines which letter is sent to the
customer. For most countries, including under the Agreement with the
United States, the notice asks the customer to complete a standard
proforma (Request for Claim Papers) which is sent to the relevant
foreign pension authority requesting them to send the necessary claim
forms to the customer.

However, a person in Australia will get a letter with a claim package if
they:

-   have been screened, and
-   must claim a payment from any other agreement country

The package contains an official claim form to complete and lodge with
Services Australia.

The Resources page contains links to the International Services homepage
and the International Program homepage.

Contents

Assisting customers to claim a foreign pension

Assisting customers to maintain an existing foreign pension

Processing a foreign pension claim

Foreign Pension System (FPS) status and reviews

Foreign pension medical assessments

Related links

International Social Security Agreements

Foreign Pension coding

Agreement liaisons, NZ CICs and exchange of information

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
