
Deferment, non-payment period or rate reduction period for Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP) 106-05020140

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the deferment, non-payment period or rate
reduction period for Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP) customers.

Claiming PPP after financial penalty applies as a result of job seeker compliance action

If a decision has been made to cancel or suspend a participation payment
as a result of non-compliance with compulsory requirements, for example
an Unemployment Non-Payment Period, serious failure or a non-compliance
cancellation, a participation payment is not payable. If the customer
claims the same, or a different type of participation payment, the
payment is not payable prior to serving the remaining financial penalty.

To reinforce the expectation that job seekers comply with compulsory
requirements in return for receiving a participation payment,
legislation also prevents members of the couple from swapping between
participation payments to gain advantage for themselves following
failure to comply with compulsory mutual obligation requirements.

Effect on PPP when partner has non-payment or rate reduction period applied

There is no effect on PPP entitlement where these periods of non-payment
or rate reduction are applied to the partner of a customer claiming PPP,
unless the customer is subject to a non-payment period such as a
compensation preclusion period, seasonal work preclusion period or an
income maintenance period.

PPP entitlement is not affected if an event has occurred that would lead
to one of these periods of non-payment or rate reduction, but the
customer has not claimed JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Youth Allowance (YA)
or Austudy.

It is possible to allow payment of PPP during a JSP, YA or Austudy
non-payment or rate reduction period if the customer has inadvertently
claimed the wrong payment.

Related links

Waiting periods for income support payments

Income Maintenance Period (IMP)

Ordinary Waiting Period (OWP)

Targeted Compliance Framework

Targeted Compliance Framework financial penalties and payment
cancellations

Job Seeker Compliance Framework

Calculating the effect of Job Seeker Compliance Framework failure
penalties on fortnightly instalments

Claiming Parenting Payment (PP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
