
International Data Exchange Program and auto indexation of foreign pensions 106-08040000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information about the international data exchange
program (DEX) and auto-indexation (Consumer Price Index (CPI)) of
foreign pensions from agreement countries and the United Kingdom (UK).

On this Page:

Foreign pensions

Foreign pensions generally include payments regulated by the national
legislation of a country other than Australia but do not include
payments under private schemes even if paid to government workers (such
as superannuation in Australia).

International data exchange programme

The exchange of information with agreement countries is authorised under
Australia's international social security agreements. A data exchange
with the United Kingdom (UK) commenced in July 2008 as authorised by
ministerial determination under s209 of the Social Security
(Administration) Act 1999.

The International Programme in Services Australia has negotiated bulk
exchanges of information with agreement countries and the UK, including
details of foreign pension increases and deceased customers. Discussions
are ongoing to extend the existing process. Files are exchanged via
secure electronic protocols with most being on an annual basis in line
with regular indexation.

Where bulk data exchange is not yet agreed, International Programme,
where possible, apply a known percentage increase to previously
confirmed rates of foreign pensions. The percentage increases are
identified from official sources.

The data exchange programme and auto-indexation enables the agency to
reassess customer entitlements and apply foreign pension rate increases
to customer records based on information received directly from the
paying authority. As such, information received via data exchange or a
rate updated via auto-indexation is considered to be accurate and
further updates to this data may be restricted.

Programme responsibilities

The International Programme is responsible for the coordination of the
data exchange programme and for updates to existing and coding of
undeclared foreign pensions.

Where any DEX or CPI activity occurs for a country, International
Programme also identifies the remaining foreign pensions that are in
scope that have not been updated. However, these cases and foreign
pension reviews for countries not subject to either DEX or CPI are
handled by normal compliance measures or by owning offices through
regular review mechanisms.

Note: DEX and CPI activity is solely an update to foreign pensions and
is not a review of the customer's circumstances.

International Services (CIS) is responsible for following up any debts
that may arise from the date exchange and for dealing with customer
enquiries including negotiation of debt repayments.

Note: entitlement to an overseas pension, including the rate of payment,
is determined by the social security authority in the relevant country,
not Services Australia. It is the customer's responsibility to discuss
entitlement or rates of payment with the social security authorities in
the other country.

CIS are also responsible for Change in Circumstances (CICs) activities
created from the automated liaison process with New Zealand.

Customers' obligation to notify of changes in their circumstances

Customers are still required to meet their obligations under social
security law to notify of changes in their circumstances, including
changes in foreign pensions, as the rate of foreign pension may change
at any time for reasons other than CPI increases, for example, change in
marital status etc.

In some circumstances, customers will still be asked to supply a copy of
their statement from the paying authority even though information has
been received via the data exchange program. Foreign pension statements
presented by customers should still be accepted by Service Officers.

The Resources page contains links to the International Program homepage
and the International Services homepage.

Related links

Foreign Pension coding

Foreign income and assets

International Social Security Agreements

Foreign pension claims

Agreement liaisons, NZ CICs and exchange of information

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
