
Assessment of hardship for Liquid Assets Waiting Period (LAWP) for Austudy and Youth Allowance (YA) students 106-05020070

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines how to establish if a student, affected by the
Liquid Assets Waiting Period (LAWP), is in hardship and under what
circumstances the LAWP can be waived.

On this Page:

Duration of LAWP

The LAWP is the period a person must wait before being paid Austudy or
Youth Allowance (YA) if they have funds above the maximum reserve of
$10,000 for a partnered customer or a single customer with dependent
children or $5,000 for a single customer. The LAWP can be applied for a
period of 1 to 13 weeks if liquid assets exceed the maximum reserve.

LAWP rounding rules

Due to rounding, the LAWP is not applied unless the customer has $11,000
or greater (combined) for couples and single customers with a dependent
child and $5,500 or greater for single customers with no dependent
children. For example, if a single customer without dependents has
between $5,001.00 and $5,499.00 in liquid assets, the amount is rounded
down to the nearest $500.00 to $5,000.00. For a partnered customer or a
customer with a dependent child if they have between $10,001.00 and
$10,999.00 the amount is rounded down to the nearest $1,000.00 to
$10,000.00.

Severe financial hardship

The LAWP may be waived where a student is in severe financial hardship.
Severe financial hardship is defined as:

-   a single student having liquid assets of less than the maximum
    fortnightly rate of the payment they are claiming, and
-   a member of a couple having less than twice the fortnightly rate of
    payment being claimed

Waiving the LAWP

Although at the time of claim the student may have had money available
to them, after serving the LAWP without income from employment or income
support from Centrelink, they may be considered to be in financial
hardship as a result of having to spend their available funds.

If the money they had has been used on unavoidable or reasonable
expenditure, the LAWP may be waived. For full-time students claiming
Austudy or YA, the student's liquid assets can also be reduced by
upfront study expenses directly related to their course of study over
the next year. The student will be asked to supply evidence (such as
receipts) of the reasonable expenditure.

Related links

Liquid Assets Waiting Period (LAWP)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
