
Recording and correcting employment income details 108-07010010

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

This procedure is under review. An Operational Message about this
content exists.

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines recording and correcting employment income for
customers.

Self Service channels

Promote the use of self service to report and update employment income
and assist eligible customers to register and navigate the tools. See
Access to Centrelink self service - set up, checking, locking and
resetting.

Genuine attempts must be made to transition customers to report via self
service options before assisted reporting is completed, unless an
Exception applies.

If there has been a self service failure, resolve the issue wherever
possible and encourage customers to reconnect to their desired self
service channel. See Reporting employment income self service
troubleshooting.

Customers can update their employment income details online using the
Report employment income service. This is done through their Centrelink
online account or the Express Plus Centrelink mobile app.

Youth Allowance (STU), Austudy, ABSTUDY Living Allowance, Age Pension,
Carer Payment (CP), Disability Support Pension and Parenting Payment
(PP) customers without mutual obligations or participation requirements
who commence employment, can report their, or their partner's, paid
employment income through the Report Employment Income service via their
online account. The customer will be automatically placed on statement
reporting and can continue reporting their or their partner's employment
income through service channels.

For information about options available to customers through online
channels, see Reporting employment income online.

Note: when a DSP customer uses the Report Employment Income service and
records more than 30 hours in a week the update will not be successful.
The customer will be advised to contact Services Australia and a work
item will be created. Staff should complete the update and advise the
customers of their options.

Effect of employment income on income support payment

A customer's employment income will affect their income support payment
depending on:

the Income and Assets Tests appropriate for the payment they are
receiving, for example:

-   pensions income and assets tests
-   allowance income and assets tests, or
-   Personal Income Test and Income Bank for ABSTUDY, Austudy and Youth
    Allowance (YA) students and Australian Apprentices

From 7 December 2020, customers report the gross employment income they
are paid in an entitlement period as shown on their payslip. Customers
do not need to manually work out the amount of income earned by
themselves and/or their partner. See the Resources page for further
information about the Changing the Income Assessment Model transition
period.

Employment income is assessed from the Entitlement Period Start Date
(EPSD) of the entitlement period in which it is paid. The income will be
apportioned from the EPSD for the same number of days as the employment
pay period it relates to. If the payment was for a period equal to or
less than the length of the entitlement period, the income will be
spread evenly across the entitlement period. Income from payment periods
greater than the length of the entitlement period are assessed across
multiple entitlement periods. See the Resources page for examples of how
income is apportioned.

Employment income may be subject to Working Credit, Work Bonus or Income
Bank rules and Income Test rules each day of the entitlement period,
regardless of the days worked. Note: if a new pension claim is rejecting
income or paying the incorrect rate under the income test, and there is
employment income coded, check the Factors Affecting Rate (PFAR) screen
for the apportionment of the income.

Earnings Screen Coding and attribution of income

From 7 December 2020, employment income is coded on the Employment
Income Paid Details (EAPP) screen with the appropriate frequency (for
example: IOP, LOP, MTE).

Employment income coded with a frequency other than MTE will be
attributed from the EPSD of the entitlement period in which it was paid,
for a length of time determined by the period for which the employment
income was paid.

The EAN screen will then show the attribution of the income recorded on
EAPP. These attributed amounts are readily identified with a channel of
‘CAL’ to indicate the data is calculated. A Pay ID is also assigned.

If the Pension Monthly Exception Rule is met and ongoing income is
recorded using the MTE frequency, attribution of this income is as
follows:

MTE amount recorded is multiplied by 12 and divided by 364 to get a
daily amount. This daily amount will be applied to each day from the
Date of Event (DOV) onwards until a change is coded.

Ongoing assessment of calendar-monthly employment income commences from
the date the income is paid, not the first day of the entitlement period
in which the amount is paid. If the DOV is part way through an
entitlement period, the income for that period is determined only for
the days from the DOV to EPED, this income is then attributed across the
whole entitlement period evenly. See Resources for an example.

See Resources for an example of employment income attribution and how
this appears on both EAPP and EANS screens.

Employment income nil rate period

If a customer would receive nil payment due to the Income Test and some
of the income is from their (or their partner's) employment, the
customer can remain current at nil rate for up to 6 consecutive
fortnights if they meet all other qualifications for their income
support payment.

Hours worked

Customers with mutual obligation requirements, customers receiving
Mobility Allowance (MOB) and/or a payment which has restrictions on the
number of hours worked, such as Disability Support Pension (DSP) are
required to report hours they have worked in their reporting period.
Hours can be coded with a continuous income frequency or coded
separately with the Hours for One period (HOP) frequency.

Customers in receipt of Youth Disability Supplement (YDS) as part of
their income support payments are only required to report the hours
worked if they exceed 30 hours per week. The customer’s capacity to work
may need to be reviewed as result of working 30 hours or more, as they
may no longer have a partial capacity to work (PCW). See Youth
Disability Supplement (YDS).

Customers receiving Carer Payment (CP) are required to have the hours
worked in their reporting period coded on the CPAS/CPAD screens. See
Carer Payment (CP) processing in the Earnings and Reporting tool.

For Australian apprentice customers (YA. Austudy or ABSTUDY) who are
reporting apprentice employment income, hours are required to be
recorded so that the Employment Status FTO can be recorded.

Leave payments received while temporarily absent from work are
employment income; record it in the entitlement period in which it was
paid. The number of hours ‘worked’ is equivalent to the number of hours
for which the leave was paid, for the relevant entitlement period, coded
with a HOP frequency.

MOB customers who also receive DSP, JSP, YA (Jobseeker) or Parenting Payment

Mobility Allowance (MOB) customers who also receive Disability Support
Pension (DSP), Parenting Payment (PP), JobSeeker Payment (JSP) or Youth
Allowance (YA) Jobseeker are entitled to a higher rate per fortnight if
they work for 15 hours or more a week, at or above the relevant minimum
wage.

Family assistance customers

Family assistance and income support reporting obligations are
different. Service Officers must discuss income estimate requirements at
every opportunity. Update both actual income for income support payments
and income estimates for Commonwealth family assistance payments when
required.

Family assistance paid as fortnightly instalments is calculated on an
annual income estimate. Income Support Payments are calculated on the
actual gross employment income paid to customers and/or their partners
during their entitlement period. Do not use the family assistance
estimate to calculate income support entitlement.

The procedure, Updating income estimates for the current financial year,
has more information about what income is included in the Family
assistance estimate and how to update the customer’s estimate.

Note: if a customer or partner is in receipt of Paid Parental Leave or
Dad and Partner Pay, the amount they are paid for these payments must be
counted in the income test for any Income Support Payment they might
receive from Centrelink. The customer/partner does not need to declare
this income as it will be automatically assessed.

Partner record suspended

There are currently 2 system limitations relating to PPP customers.

-   If an NSS partner, for example: JSP, YA, Special Benefit (SpB), of a
    PPP customer is suspended, any income recorded on the NSS partner
    record may not give the correct rate for the PPP customer. This is
    because no excess partner income can be calculated
-   If a PEN partner of a PPP customer is suspended, any income recorded
    on the PEN partner's record will be incorrectly assessed using the
    Pension Income Test. The correct Income Test used for the PPP
    customer must be the partner not on pension, Austudy or YA Income
    Test.

In both circumstances, do not restore the partner's record. A manual
rate must be applied.

See Process for more information.

Job Seeker improved reporting of changes in income

When an Employment Service Provider places a job seeker in employment,
they create and electronically transmit a transaction to Services
Australia. If customers receiving a Working Age payment do not declare
income, the system prompts Service Officers to have a discussion with
the customer. Only work which has started in the 14 days prior to the
advice to the agency will require follow-up.

The Earnings and Reporting workflow prompts a discussion for stimulus
reporters. For customers without statement reporting requirements, an
Urgent Issue displays. Record an outcome for the discussion; this may
involve clarification with the employer or employment service provider.

The procedure, Employment Services Provider reports customer commenced
employment but income not declared, contains more information.

Income paid not in respect of a particular period

If a customer is paid an amount of employment income that is not in
respect of a particular period, meaning a set pay period cannot be
determined based on the information provided, the amount is to be
assessed over a period of up to 52 weeks. The assessment period will
commence from the entitlement period start date of the period in which
the payment is received.

If, after discussion with the customer and Technical Peer Support
(TPS)/Access Support Centre (ASC), a pay period cannot be determined,
refer the case to the Means Test team for investigation. Document the
customer record to indicate that the case has been referred for follow
up.

Income declared as employment income that is actually self-employment

If a customer has reported income as employment income that is later
determined to be self-employment a Business Details (MOD F) should be
completed by the customer (Or MOD PT or PC depending on the structure of
the business).

Staff must take care to only remove the employment income in the same
activity as the self-employment income is recorded.

The Resources page contains examples of how to calculate and code income
for shorter income periods (including the first period of a new claim
and when due to a change to the customer's delivery day) and a link to
mySupport.

Related links

Reporting statements for job seekers

Special Employment Advance (SEA)

Assessment of employment income for Parenting Payment Partnered (PPP)
customers over Age Pension age

Determining the Date of Event for employment income

Reporting employment income online

Employment income options online

Using Centrelink self service

Reporting using phone self service

Reporting Employment Income self service troubleshooting

Coding a manual rate of payment

Assessing fringe benefits for Social Security income test purposes

Estimating income for family assistance and Parental Leave pay scheme
payments

Reporting requirements for students and Australian Apprentices

Cancellation of payments (CLK)

Assessment of employment income for Centrelink payments

Foreign income and assets

Commencing or returning to work

Employment income nil rate period

Personal Income Test and Income Bank for ABSTUDY, Austudy and Youth
Allowance (YA) students and Australian Apprentices

Coding income from the Supported Wage System (SWS)

Assessing and recording changes in circumstances for Mobility Allowance
(MOB)

Wages and conditions of employment

Employment Services Provider reports customer commenced employment but
income not declared

Earnings and reporting tool

Pre 20 September 2009 assessment of employment income for customers over
Age Pension age

Income from Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)

Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy (YBWS) 26 Week Suspension Period

Effect of income support entitlement on Family Tax Benefit (FTB)

Income and Assets test for Status Resolution Support Services (SRSS)
customers

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
