
Applying the income test component of the non-customer Care Receiver Income and Assets (CRIA) test 108-03020020

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines information to assist in the assessment of the
care receiver's income under the non-customer CRIA test.

Income and asset limits for a non-customer care receiver

A non-customer care receiver is subject to income and asset limits in
order for their carer to qualify for Carer Payment (CP).

A non-customer care receivers income threshold and asset limits are
determined under the Social Security Act (SSA) 1991.

The income assessed for a non-customer care receiver is based on their
personal circumstances (e.g. single or partnered, living with a
parent/guardian, etc.), and their income in the appropriate tax year as
set out in the SSA. It does not include any non-taxable income.

Note: Paid Parental Leave (PPL) is not exempt income for the CRIA test,
as it is taxable income.

National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS) funds received from the
National Disability Insurance Agency (NDIA), whether received
periodically or as a lump sum (including interest accrued), which are
deposited into an account specifically for the purpose of managing the
customer's NDIS plan, are exempt from the income and assets tests and
deeming. They are not required to be reported or if reported should not
be taken into account in the income and asset assessment.

Once income qualification is established, the non-customer care receiver
assets test is applied.

Non-customer care receivers with assets over the care receivers assets
test limit may qualify for exemption from the Assets Test.

There are different types of Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)
payments and different processes to follow when customers advise they
receive DVA income.

For care receivers income thresholds and asset limits see the Carer
Payment (CP) - Care Receiver Income and Asset Limits link on the Rates
and Threshold page.

Adult care receivers

If the higher Adult Disability Assessment Tool (ADAT) score adult care
receiver is receiving a social security pension or benefit, or income
tested payment from DVA, they are exempt from the CRIA test. However,
not all DVA payments are income tested, e.g. Disability Pension and War
Widow(er)'s Pension (WWP) are non-income tested. Care receivers
receiving either of these payments should be tested under the
non-customer CRIA test. If a care receiver is receiving a non-income
tested payment (e.g. WWP or WID) in addition to a DVA Income Support
Supplement (ISS), they are not subject to the non-customer CRIA test.

If the higher ADAT score adult care receiver is partnered to someone
other than the customer and the partner receives a social security
pension or benefit, or income tested payment from DVA, they are exempt
from the CRIA test.

A higher ADAT score adult care receiver can qualify their carer for CP,
if the only reason they are not being paid a social security pension, or
income tested payment from DVA is because they have not been an
Australian resident for a long enough period. This means they have met
all other requirements such as incapacity for Disability Support Pension
(DSP) and passed the Income and Assets Tests applicable to each type of
payment.

Note:

-   ABSTUDY is not defined as a social security pension or benefit,
    therefore a care receiver receiving ABSTUDY does not exempt the
    carer from the non-customer CRIA test
-   Only social security pension and income tested payments from DVA can
    qualify under the residence criteria. This means a qualification for
    JobSeeker Payment (JSP), Youth Allowance (YA) or Special Benefit
    (SpB) will not meet the requirements of the Social Security Act,
    section 198(7) of the legislation

Child care receivers

For a carer to be paid CP for a child under 16, the income and assets of
the child being cared for (and if the child lives with their
parent/legal guardian, the income and assets of the parents and their
Family Tax Benefit (FTB) children) must not exceed the CRIA test limits.
There is no exemption from the CRIA test for a child care receiver.

Wife Pension transfer to Carer Payment CP (XWP)

The Care Receiver Income and Assets (CRIA) test does not apply to CP
(XWP). For more information, see Transfer from Wife Pension (WP) to
Carer Payment (CP).

The Resources page contains a link to relevant forms, 'A guide to
Australian Government payments' and the Department of Veterans' Affairs
(DVA) Reference Guide 'An Overview of DVA Payments and Services'.

Related links

C-E payment rates and thresholds

Applying the assets test component of the non-customer Care Receiver
Income and Assets (CRIA) test

Assets test exemptions for the non-customer Care Receiver Income and
Assets (CRIA) test

Income from Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)

Coding the Care Receiver Income and Assets Details (CRIA) screen

Coding a claim for Carer Payment (CP) where the care receiver is 16 or
over

Determining the appropriate tax year for the non-customer Care Receiver
Income and Assets (CRIA) test

Pensions income and assets tests

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
