
Cessation of employment income 108-07010110

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the actions to take and how income is to be
assessed when a current customer advises they or their partner have
ceased employment. Customers must advise cessation of employment as
early as possible, and certainly within the 14 day notification period
(28 days for overseas customers), otherwise the customer may be paid an
incorrect amount.

New claim due to ceasing work

A separate procedure covers customers who are no longer self-employed.

If a non-customer advises they are ceasing work, they may wish to make a
new claim for income support.

Advise the customer of new claim procedures, including details of any
waiting period that may affect the payment start day if relevant. If
customer is ceasing employment more than 2 weeks in the future and not
claiming JSP or YA, they may be able to lodge an early claim.

Note: if the customer is in the Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy 26 week
suspension period, they may be eligible to have their payments restored
without the need for a new claim if employment has ceased through no
fault of their own.

Lump sum termination payment

If a current customer or their partner ceases work and receives a lump
sum termination payment, the payment will be treated differently
depending on which payment the person receives. Payments received by a
customer through supported employment, including employment with an
Australian Disability Enterprise (ADE) and the Supported Wage System
(SWS), are assessed the same as payments received from open employment.
See Leave and termination payments paid by an employer for more
information.

If a customer left work or was terminated from a job in the previous 12
months, check if employment income and/or ceasing work was previously
declared. If employment income/ceasing work was not previously advised,
request an Employment Separation Certificate (SU1) for customer claiming
or receiving payment to determine if a failure must be investigated, or
if an income maintenance period (IMP) is to apply.

Note: Leave and termination payments paid in the last 12 months may be
reported by an employer via Single Touch Payroll (STP). Employment
cessation details, including the date work ceased, the reason employment
ceased and any unused leave or redundancy payments paid, may be
pre-filled in online claims or during statement reporting. If cessation
data available via Single Touch Payroll (STP) is confirmed by the
customer, verification is not required.

Temporarily ceasing work

A lump sum payment paid to a customer when the customer is only
temporarily ceasing work (for example, taking long service leave) is
employment income and is to be included with any other employment income
and coded on the appropriate screen when reporting. Generally, customers
taking paid leave will receive their leave entitlement in instalments,
similar to the normal wages from the employer. See Leave and termination
payments paid by an employer for more information.

DSP

If a customer’s DSP was previously suspended for 2 years (or cancelled
deemed suspended) due to full-time work, payment of DSP can be restored
within this period and earnings updated if either:

-   employment has ceased, or
-   their income reduces below the threshold, or
-   They work 30 hours or less and income does not preclude payment

ABSTUDY customers

There is no IMP imposed on ABSTUDY customers.

For ABSTUDY customers who receive a lump sum termination payment
(remuneration related) including leave entitlements on or after the date
of grant, the lump sum is apportioned over a 12 month period in 52
weekly amounts. Lump sum termination payments received prior to the date
of grant are not taken into account. The procedure, Treatment of lump
sums, contains further information.

Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy (YBWS) jobseeker ceases work

A suspended jobseeker participating in the Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy
(YBWS) initiative, who ceases work due to no fault of their own during
the 26 week suspension period, can have their income support payment
restored.

See Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy (YBWS) 26 Week Suspension Period.

Family income estimate for Family Tax Benefit (FTB) and Child Care Subsidy (CCS) customers

Income reporting requirements for family assistance payments (Family Tax
Benefit and Child Care Subsidy) and income support payments are
different. The combined family income estimate for family assistance is
not used to calculate income support entitlement.

-   Most FTB / CCS customers have to provide a family income estimate
    that reflects their family's financial circumstances for the whole
    financial year. If a customer or their partner has had a change to
    their income, the customer should review their family income
    estimate and update it if required. See Updating income estimates
    for the current financial year for more information
-   For income support customers with employment income, the gross
    amount before tax must be coded and assessed correctly. See
    Recording and correcting employment income details for more
    information

Service Officers must remind customers of the separate income reporting
requirements at every opportunity to ensure both gross income before tax
for income support payments and combined family income estimates for
family assistance payments are updated when required.

If either member of a couple is receiving family assistance, the
combined family income estimate must include all components of
assessable income received or expected to be received for the whole
financial year for the customer and/or their partner. If either member
of the couple is eligible for an income support payment, all expected
payments must be included in the family income estimate.

Child Care Subsidy and Additional Child Care Subsidy

CCS customers must notify Services Australia of changes in circumstances
that will impact their eligibility or entitlement to CCS or and/or
Additional Child Care Subsidy (ACCS).

Child Care Subsidy (CCS) customers should update their Activity Test
Details if ceasing employment income.

Note: if the customer is in receipt of Additional Child Care Subsidy
(ACCS) Transition to Work (TTW) refer to Additional Child Care Subsidy
(ACCS) (Transition to Work) change in circumstances and reviews before
making updates to their Activity Test Details.

For customers utilising child care, Additional Child Care Subsidy (ACCS)
Temporary Financial Hardship (TFH) provides short-term support to
families experiencing significant financial stress due to circumstances
beyond their control. Refer to Additional Child Care Subsidy (ACCS)
Temporary Financial Hardship.

The Resources page contains a table listing each scenario and how the
cessation of income is assessed and recorded.

Related links

Treatment of lump sums

Restoration of Disability Support Pension (DSP)

Identifying entitlements and services for the customer (CLK)

Claiming income support payments from Centrelink

Claim lodgement of Centrelink claims

Start day

Exempt income and assets for Centrelink payments

Employment Separation Certificate (SU1)

Income Maintenance Period (IMP)

Paid leave and redundancy payments (advised before 19 April 2010)

Leave and termination payments paid by an employer

Determining the Date of Event for employment income

Reporting screens

Business has ceased to operate or has closed

Youth Bonus Wage Subsidy (YBWS) 26 Week Suspension Period

Changes in circumstances and date of effect for Child Care Subsidy (CCS)
and Additional Child Care Subsidy (ACCS)

Helping families provide a reasonable annual income estimate for family
assistance payments

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
