
Assessing a failed loan 108-04020020

-   Background
-   Process
-   References

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the assessment of a failed loan. A loan is part
of a customer's assessable financial assets and is subject to the
deeming provisions. If a customer is receiving limited or no return on
the loan, the customer may request the loan be exempt from deeming (by
the Minister for Social Services), or the loan may be assessed as a
failed loan by a Complex Assessment Officer (CAO) and the asset value
may be disregarded.

Legal recovery action

A loan or debt is not usually accepted as being a failed loan unless
legal recovery action has, or is, being taken. If a loan does get
accepted as failed but the customer had not previously taken action to
get their maximum return, asset deprivation provisions amounting to the
amount they should have received may apply.

For example, a company had $100,000 in assets, owed our customer
$300,000 and others $200,000. The others were listed as the only
creditors on wind up and so received 50 cents in the dollar. Because our
customer did not attempt to get back his loan, deprivation occurred. If
it would be reasonable to believe that had he joined the list of
creditors with equal entitlement, they would all have received 20 cents
in the dollar, we can assess that the customer deprived himself of
$60,000. If however the customer can justify not becoming a creditor
because his liability ranked such that he would not have received
anything, then there was no deprivation.

If a loan is declared failed after the customer took action, no
deprivation occurs.

Legally irrecoverable loan

If a loan or debt is legally irrecoverable, because the debtor is unable
to repay or because other debts have legal priority, the case must be
sent to the CAO who will recommend whether or not a loan is a failed
loan and can be disregarded as an asset or a value less than face value.
The loan may still need to be assessed under the rules for deeming
exemptions if the deemed income affects the customer's rate of payment.
If the loan is assessed as being a failed loan, then it is no longer
assessed as an asset.

Related links

Assessment of income for Centrelink payments

Deeming provisions

Deeming exemptions

A-H Deeming Exemption Register

I-Z Deeming Exemption Register

Loans

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
