
Assessing verified parental income for current income assessments for ABSTUDY and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme 108-02020050

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document explains the action to be taken when proof of parental
income has been provided for either ABSTUDY or Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) Scheme claims where a current income assessment has been
applied due to a decrease or an increase in parental income from the
base tax year. This is for ABSTUDY and Assistance for Isolated Children
(AIC) Scheme Smart Centre Processing staff only.

On this Page:

Living Allowance and Additional Boarding Allowance Means Test

A dependent ABSTUDY customer's entitlement to Living Allowance or an AIC
student's entitlement to Additional Boarding Allowance (ABA) for the
year of study is normally based on his/her parent(s)', or person(s)
deemed to be a parent for the purposes of the parental means tests,
combined family income for the financial year ending in the year before
study (that is, the base tax year).

Decrease or increase in parental income

However, if parent(s) have a substantial decrease or an increase of more
than 25% in their combined parental income for the financial year ending
in the year of study (that is, the current tax year) over that of the
base tax year, the customer's or student's entitlement may be reassessed
using the income figures for the current tax year.

Reassessment after verification of change in parental income

The parents are requested to supply Services Australia with their
verified income for that financial year when it becomes available so
that an accurate assessment of the customer's or student's entitlement
can be undertaken. When the verified income figures are provided, the
appropriate type of income assessment may need to be determined again
using the parent'(s) verified income figures. These re-assessments may
result in an underpayment of benefits for which payments will be
adjusted, or an overpayment of benefits for which a request will be made
for repayment.

The Resources page contains links to relevant forms.

Related links

Applying the Parental Income Test (PIT) for ABSTUDY and Youth Allowance
(YA)

Applying the Parental Income Test (PIT) for Assistance for Isolated
Children (AIC) Scheme

Completing Parent(s)/Guardian(s) details for the Base Tax Year and
Current Tax Year (MOD JY)

Assessing the Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Current Income
Assessment (SY042)

Increase or decrease in parental income for Youth Allowance (YA),
ABSTUDY and Assistance for Isolated Children (AIC) Scheme

AVTOP

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
