
General reviews and Service Updates for job seekers, students, trainees or Australian Apprentices 110-07010000

-   Background

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the procedure to conduct general reviews and
service updates for job seekers, students, trainees or Australian
Apprentices.

Services Updates and reviews

Services Australia is required to conduct Service Updates and reviews of
compliance with their mutual obligation requirements for all JobSeeker
Payment (JSP), Youth Allowance (other) job seekers and compliance with
the Activity Test for all Youth Allowance (student) customers.

Services Australia is also required to ensure that JSP and YA customers
are well informed about their obligations. Note: customers in receipt of
YA as an Australian Apprentice (apprentice or trainee) are not subject
to an activity test.

These requirements are set out in the Bilateral Management Agreement
(BMA) with the Department of Social Services (DSS), the Department of
Education and the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations
(DEWR) with which Services Australia must comply.

Purpose of general reviews and Service Updates

The primary purpose of general reviews and Service Updates for a job
seeker is to review the contents of the Job Plan and update if required
for Services Australia managed customers, address any barriers the job
seeker has to participating socially or economically, including finding
paid work and ensure that the job seeker:

-   is receiving the correct entitlement to payment, and
-   is complying with their mutual obligation requirements.

Reviews and Service Updates for students/trainees are designed to ensure
the student/trainee:

-   is receiving the correct entitlement to payment, and
-   is undertaking full-time study (or their appropriate concessional
    study load), or
-   is satisfying their Activity Test obligations.

Service Profiling is a method of selectively targeting customers and
offering Centrelink services and Service Officer assistance to those
customers. It is a way of identifying which customers need a more
focused/targeted level of service to assist them meeting program
outcomes, for example declaring their earnings.

Contents

Digital Study Load Declaration (DSLD) online reviews

Processing Tertiary Collection of Student Information (TCSI) reviews

Related links

Tertiary Collection of Student Information (TCSI)

Service Profiling

Service Profiling Capability

Employment support

ABSTUDY Activity Agreements

Reviews of independence for job seekers, students or Australian
Apprentices

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
