
Report Suspected Fraud and Corruption 110-09110000

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

Policy

Child Support Guide 6.8.1: Employer offences

Child Support Guide 6.8.2: Offences Involving a Failure to Comply with
Notices

Child Support Guide 6.8.4: False and misleading statements

Child Support Guide 6.8.5: Offences in Relation to Departure Prohibition
Orders

Social Security Guide, 1.3.3, Privacy and Confidentiality

For information about the obligation of Services Australia to tell
individuals what their information will be used for and to whom it will
be disclosed, see:

Privacy Intranet page

Legislation

Links to the Federal Register of Legislation site go to a 'Series' page.
Select the 'Latest' version.

Criminal Code Act (1995) Division 148

Legislation providing Services Australia power to obtain information

Social Security (Administration) Act 1999, section 192, General power to
obtain information

Australian Privacy Principles (APPs)

Information on the collection, storage and limits on the use of personal
information and the alteration of records while undertaking these
reviews is found in the Australian Privacy Principles (APPs).

Privacy Act 1998, Schedule 1, Australian Privacy Principles

Relevant Principles

-   APP 1, Open and transparent management of personal
-   APP 3, Collection of solicited personal information
-   APP 5, Notification of the collection of personal information
-   APP 6, Use or disclosure of personal information

Centrelink legislation

The following secrecy provisions do not prevent the disclosure of
protected information for the purpose of reporting suspected fraud and
corruption to Serious Non-compliance if a Services Australia employee
working under Centrelink legislation discovers suspected Child support
fraud and corruption:

Section 201(1) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999

Section 161(1) of the A New Tax System (Family Assistance)
(Administration) Act 1999

Section 126(1) of the Paid Parental Leave Act 2010

Section 351(3) of the Student Assistance Act 1973

The following secrecy provisions permit the disclosure of protected
information when the disclosure is in the public interest:

Section 208(1)(a) of the Social Security (Administration) Act 1999

Section 168(1)(a) of the A New Tax System (Family Assistance)
(Administration) Act 1999

Section 128(1)(a) of the Paid Parental Leave Act 2010

Section 355(1)(a) of the Student Assistance Act 1973

The following public interest certificate certifies that the reporting
of suspected fraud and corruption to Serious Non-compliance if a
Services Australia employee working under Centrelink legislation
discovers suspected Health fraud and corruption is in the public
interest:

Public Interest Certificate: Centrelink for Health Fraud

Medicare legislation

The following secrecy provisions permit the disclosure of protected
information when the disclosure is in the public interest:

Sections 135A(3)(a), 135A(7)(a) and 135A(8) of the National Health Act
1953

Section 130(3)(a), 130(7)(a) and 130(8) of the Health Insurance Act 1973

The following public interest certificate certifies the reporting of
suspected fraud and corruption to the Intelligence and Investigations
Branch if an employee working under Medicare legislation discovers
suspected Child Support or Centrelink fraud and corruption is in the
public interest:

Public Interest Certificate: Medicare for Child Support and Centrelink
Fraud

Child Support legislation

The following secrecy provisions do not prevent the disclosure of
protected information if it is for the purpose of a Centrelink or
Medicare programme:

Section 150(3)(bb) of the Child Support (Assessment) Act 1989

Section 16(3)(bb) of the Child Support (Registration and Collection) Act
1988

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
