
Integrated care - Notification and recording of change in care 277-03060010

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines the process for dealing with the notification and
recording of a change in care using an integrated approach across both
Child Support and Centrelink programs.

Care date of effect

For Centrelink the date of effect of a care change is the date of the
care change event. Late notifications may result in a reduction of
Family Tax Benefit from not taking ‘reasonable maintenance action’ in a
timely manner due to Child Support date of effect rules.

For Child Support, when a care change occurs on or after 1 July 2018 but
notified more than 28 days after the event, or before 1 July 2018 but
notified on or after 30 December 2018, the new care determination is
used from the day:

-   the care changed, if a person’s care has decreased
-   we were notified, if a person’s care has increased

A single care change, for a child, if advised outside of 28 days, will
take effect in the assessment on different days for each party to the
assessment.

If the care changed before 1 July 2018 and we were notified more than 28
days after the change but before 30 December 2018, the new care
determination will be used in the child support assessment from the date
notified for all parties to the assessment.

Care changes notified between 23 May 2018 and 14 May 2019 for WA
Ex-nuptial child support cases must be made under the legislation in
place prior to the amendments effective 23 May 2018 and 1 July 2018
applies. See WA Ex-nuptial cases - Notification of change in child
support care (post 1 July 2010).

Roles and responsibilities

See the Background page in Integrated Care for information about roles
and responsibilities.

Authorisations and delegations

See the Background page in Integrated Care for information about
authorisations and delegations.

Related links

Integrated Care

Integrated Care - Disagreed and disputed care

Integrated Care - Gathering additional information and evidence

Integrated Care - Making care determination

Integrated Care - Managing issues

Integrated Care - Recording care determination

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
