
Administering agreements and court varied assessments (CVA) lodged post 1 July 2008 that include pre and post 1 July 2008 periods 277-02010050

-   Background
-   
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources
-   Training & Support

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document is for Child Support Program Support Managers only.

This document outlines information to support making a decision on child
support agreements or Court Varied Assessments (CVAs) that are lodged
after 1 July 2008, and include periods that cover before and after this
date. It also provides instructions on how to load the agreements and
CVAs in Cuba. Links on this page may be unavailable to external
audiences.

On this Page:

Background

Legislative changes made by the Families, Housing, Community Services
and Indigenous Affairs and Other Legislation Amendment (2008 Budget and
Other Measures) Act 2008 have implications for the way in which Child
Support administer both agreements and some CVAs (generally orders other
than for periodic amounts) that are lodged on or after 1 July 2008 and
have a start date before 1 July 2008 and an end date after 30 June 2008.
This is to ensure that any pre 1 July 2008 portion of an agreement or
CVA are processed in line with the legislation that applied at that
time. This includes referring the pre 1 July 2008 portion of an
agreement to Centrelink for approval, where required. There are not
likely to be many of these. As time passes after 1 July 2008, parents
are less likely to make arrangements that backdate before 1 July 2008.

Agreements

Agreements that are lodged on or after 1 July 2008 and have a start date
before 1 July 2008 with an end date on or after 1 July 2008, may need to
be loaded using both the pre and post July 2008 legislation and
procedures. This applies to both limited and binding agreements.
Agreements between Child Support customers instructs Service Officers to
refer these agreements to a Program Support Manager via a Service
Support Officer (SSO).

Special loading arrangements for agreements

Where child support is already payable, the assessment will be varied
from:

-   the date specified in the agreement, if the application for
    acceptance of the agreement was made within 28 days of the agreement
    being signed, provided that date is not before the date the case
    started

Section 34B of the Child Support (Assessment) Act 1989 relating to the
backdating of agreements was amended on 1 July 2008. Where an
application for acceptance of the agreement was lodged with CSP after 1
July 2008, the agreement provisions can only be backdated where the
application was made within 28 days of the agreement being signed. If
the application is lodged more than 28 days after the agreement was
signed, the accepted agreement will only have effect from the date that
the application for acceptance is made.

Example 1: The parents, Muriel & Fred, have a private collect child
support case that started in 2004. Muriel & Fred signed a child support
agreement on 15 April 2006, but neither parent ever made an application
to CSP to have the agreement accepted. On 15 July 2008, Muriel lodged an
application for acceptance of the agreement. As the application for
acceptance was made after 1 July 2008 and was more than 28 days after
the agreement was signed, the agreement provisions will apply from 15
July 2008 only. There is no need to load the agreement for the earlier
period or have it considered by Centrelink.

Example 2: The parents, Anne & Bob, have a CSP collect child support
case that started in 2002. Anne & Bob sign a child support agreement on
28 July 2008, which includes provisions for periodic payments from 1
July 2004 onwards. On 4 August 2008, Anne lodges an application for
acceptance of the agreement. As the application for acceptance was made
after 1 July 2008 and within 28 days of the agreement being signed, the
agreement (if accepted) will be backdated to 1 July 2004. Both parts of
the agreement must be loaded and Centrelink approval will be required
for the pre-1 July 2008 provisions.

So under these conditions if the agreement is:

-   lodged on or after 1 July 2008
-   with a start date before 1 July 2008 and an end date on or after 1
    July 2008; and
-   within 28 days of the agreement being signed

then the agreement must be loaded as two separate child support
agreements - one for the period prior to 1 July 2008 and the other for
the period from 1 July 2008. See the Guide 2.7.4 Effect of a child
support agreement once accepted by the Registrar (other then lump sum
provisions).

Example: An agreement is made and signed on 01/09/2008 with a specified
start date of 01/06/2008, a parent applied for acceptance of the
agreement on 8/9/2008 and the application is accepted by CSP on
10/09/2008. The agreement spans 01 July 2008 when the legislation was
amended. The application for acceptance was made within 28 days of
signing; therefore the start date of 01/06/2008 should be applied. The
portion of the agreement from 01/06/2008 to 30/06/2008 will need
Centrelink approval if the payee is on more than the base rate of Family
Tax Benefit part A.

See pre July 2008 version of PI - Agreements. Email Operational
Blueprint to request a copy of a pre 1 July 2008 Procedural Instruction.

Post July 2008 legislation will be applied in determining whether to
accept the agreement for the post 1 July 2008 period.

This may mean that one period of the agreement is accepted and the other
is not accepted.

Authorisations

Program Support Manager

The authority to approve the loading of these agreements and CVAs is at
the Program Support Manager level.

For more information about authorisations and delegations, see Child
Support Services, Delegations and Authorisations.

Related links

Agreements between child support customers

Assessing a new Child Support agreement

Ending a Child Support agreement

Interpreting and making a decision on a Child Support agreement

Managing changes affecting a Child Support

Recording a Child Support agreement

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
