
International (CS) 277-08000000

-   Background

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines content relevant for International Child Support
customers.

Government intent

In 1988, the Australian Government introduced the child support scheme
to assist separated parents to take responsibility for the financial
support of their children. The Child Support Registrar administers the
child support scheme.

Services Australia delivers the services and payments provided by Child
Support, Medicare, and Centrelink. Child Support is a service delivery
brand within Services Australia.

The child support scheme involves the assessment of child support in
accordance with a formula as well as the collection and enforcement of
court orders, child support agreements and child support assessments.

Contents

Central Authority Address Listing for Child Support International
customers

Registration of overseas maintenance liabilities (excluding NZ) in Child
Support

Responding to requests from overseas authorities (excluding New Zealand)

Customer location (Tracing) (CS)

Income processing for Child Support customers (International parents)

International Disbursements - New Zealand bulk payments out (CS)

International Disbursements - Sweden and Slovakia bulk payments out (CS)

International Disbursements - Other bulk payments out (CS)

International Disbursements - New Zealand bulk payments in (CS)

International Disbursements - Foreign cheque payments in (CS)

International Disbursements - Check transmittals are being sent to NZ
(CS)

International Disbursements - Disbursements of less than AUD$50 (CS)

International Disbursements - Downward adjustments of payments (NZ IN)
(CS)

International Disbursements - Invalid NZ payee addresses (CS)

International Disbursements - Master Address Register, WIRE/EFT and
Country Specific Payment Templates

International Disbursements - Refunds and issue of excess cash (CS)

International Disbursements - Stale and unpresented cheques (CS)

New Zealand Case Management - Exchange of information from NZIR to Child
Support

New Zealand Case Management (NZ In Case) - Amended Certificates from
Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR) to Child Support

New Zealand Case Management - Bulk Annual Assessments of Child Support –
NZIR to Child Support

New Zealand Case Management - Withdrawals and Returns to NZIR from Child
Support

New Zealand Case Management – Summary of Exchange of Information from
Child Support to Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR)

New Zealand Case Management (NZ Out Case) - Amended Certificates sent
from Child Support to Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR)

New Zealand Case Management - Daily Exchange Spreadsheet Child Support
to NZIR

New Zealand Case Management (NZ Out Case) – Requesting an Income from
Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR) for Child Support

Phone Exchange of Information between Child Support and Inland Revenue,
New Zealand (NZIR)

New Zealand Case Management (NZ Out Case) - Transmittal from Child
Support to Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR)

New Zealand Case Management (NZ Out Case) - Withdrawals and Returns of
NZ OUT Cases from Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR) to Child Support

New Zealand Case Management (NZ Out Case) - Customer Location Requests
from Child Support to Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR)

Obsolete Child Support entries

Referring overseas maintenance and paternity matters to the
Attorney-General’s Department

Residency decisions for Child Support customers

Transmittal of Child Support information (excluding NZ)

Variations to registered overseas maintenance liabilities (excluding New
Zealand)

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
