
Child support estimates - Reconcile (from 1 July 2011) 277-07060000

-   Background
-   Process Summary
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

The document outlines the process for reconciling Child Support
Estimates from 1 July 2011.

Estimates lodged on or after 1 July 2010 (or 3 March 2011 for WA ex-nup
cases) run from the start date of the initial estimate to the end of the
financial year.

Most estimates for a financial year are reconciled automatically by Cuba
on receipt of the customer’s taxable income from the Australian Taxation
Office (ATO), see Auto reconciliation procedure for child support
estimates (from 1 July 2011). There are some exceptions to auto
reconciliation which require manual intervention.

To ensure all estimates are verified and reconciled where necessary, if
the customer’s actual ATI is not available 12 months after the end of a
financial year in which a customer lodged an estimate, the Child Support
Registrar may reconcile the estimate using a determined income.

To reconcile an estimate taken before 1 July 2010 (before 3 March 2011
for WA ex-nuptial cases) see Child support estimates - Reconcile (pre 1
July 2011).

Authorisations and delegations

Service Officer (SO3)

Only selected members in the SAS Specialised Assessment Services can
reconcile estimates

Service Officer (SO4)

To reconcile estimates

Note: Estimate reconciliations are managed within the Specialist
Estimates Teams (SET). Follow the Customer Management Approach (CMA) for
Child Support- Customer referral guidelines to make referrals to SET.

For more information on authorisations and delegations, see Child
Support Services, Delegations and Authorisations.

The Resources page contains information relating to Child Support
Estimates Reconciliation (from 1 July 2011).

Contents

Auto reconciliation procedure for child support estimates (from 1 July
2011)

Manual reconciliation procedure for child support estimates (from 1 July
2011)

Reconciling an overseas estimate (from 1 July 2011)

Related links

Blueprint documents

Child support estimates (post 1 July 2010)

Child support estimates (pre 1 July 2010)

Child support estimates review (post 1 July 2010)

Child support estimates review (pre 1 July 2010)

Child support estimates - Reconcile (pre 1 July 2011)

Child Support's information gathering powers

Contact with Child Support customers

Correcting errors on Child Support cases

Deceased Child Support customer management

Documenting Child Support information in Cuba

Income processing for Child Support customers (international parents)

Letters for Child Support customers

New Zealand Case Management (NZ Out Case) – Requesting an Income from
Inland Revenue, New Zealand (NZIR) for Child Support

Child Support objections

Overpayments and payee debt (CS)

Child Support penalties and estimate penalties

Post separation income for Child Support customers

Residency decisions for Child Support customers

WA Child Support ex-nuptial cases

Technical support in Child Support

Process Helps

CSAOnline secure message Cuba Process Help

Documentation Cuba Process Help

Estimates Cuba Process Help

Intray management Cuba Process Help

Letters Cuba Process Help

Penalties Cuba Process Help

Transfer or lock a customer Cuba Process Help

Window Helps

Client Income Window Help

Estimate Income Window Help

Reconciling Estimate Income Window Help

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
