
Child support Manual Follow-up (MFU) activities and automatic reviews 277-51160000

-   Background
-   Process
-   References
-   Resources

[Expand/Collapse all sections]Expand all

This document outlines automatic reviews that are generated on a
customer's record in relation to child support. These reviews are
necessary to ensure the Maintenance Action Test (MAT) and Maintenance
Income Test (MIT) are correctly applied in calculating the customer's
rate of Family Tax Benefit (FTB) Part A.

System generated reviews

System generated reviews include:

-   Manual Follow-up (MFU) activities created on a customer's Activity
    List (AL) screen for a Service Officer to action by checking child
    support action details on the system and/or with the customer
-   automatic reviews that limit the customer's FTB Part A rate for a
    child to base rate

MFU activities need to be actioned in a timely manner to avoid
disadvantaging the customer and to make sure child support information
on the customer's record is correct.

Some automatic reviews are set up to confirm with Child Support that a
customer has applied for a child support assessment/collection. If data
has not been transferred by the date the review is due, maintenance
action is automatically updated to limit the customer's FTB Part A for
the child to the base rate.

Child support case ended

Child Support may advise that:

-   a child support case has ended, or
-   a case for a particular child has ended

The maintenance action code will be automatically updated in these
cases. In most cases an MFU will be created so Child Support Unit (CSU)
staff can check that the customer's child support details are assessed
correctly for FTB.

Parents who reconcile

If the payee reconciles with the payer, the payee may choose to suspend
the child support case. If this occurs an MFU will be created if data
transferred does not match:

-   details on the customer's record about their relationship status, or
-   the date of the change in their relationship status

The Resources page contains a link to mySupport.

Related links

Applications for child support assessment through Centrelink

Centrelink action when an application for child support assessment is
rejected by Child Support

Child Support data has not loaded onto or is incorrectly affecting
customer's record

Completing child support Manual Follow-ups (MFUs)

Maintenance Action Test (MAT) codes

Mutual customer matching with Child Support

Effect on Family Tax Benefit (FTB) where the customer elects to suspend
or end a child support assessment

Referrals to legal advice for action to obtain child support to satisfy
the Maintenance Action Test (MAT)

Transfer of information between Centrelink and Child Support

                                   

-   Services Australia ABN 90 794 605 008 
